









10 Best Big Data Analytics Tools for 2022 - With Uses & Limitations - DataFlair
















































 










Skip to content


  













Search for:



 

Blogs
Data Science Tutorials
Python Tutorials
Big Data Tutorials
Hadoop Tutorials
Spark Tutorials
R Tutorials
Machine Learning Tutorials
 








        
Blog Home
Data Science

Data Science Tutorials
Machine Learning Tutorials
Big Data

Big Data Tutorials
Hadoop Ecosystem Tutorials
Apache Spark Tutorials
Apache Flink Tutorials
Apache Kafka Tutorials


Python Tutorials

Python Tutorials
TensorFlow Tutorials
Pandas Tutorials
Django Tutorials


BI Tutorials

Tableau Tutorials
Power BI Tutorials
QlikView Tutorials
Qlik Sense Tutorials
SAP HANA Tutorials


SQL & NoSQL

SQL Tutorials
Cassandra Tutorials
MongoDB Tutorials


IoT Tutorials
R Tutorials
SAS Tutorials
AI Tutorials


Categories

Programming

C Tutorials
Scala Tutorials
Java Tutorials
Spring Tutorials


Cloud

Cloud Computing Tutorials
AWS Tutorials


Android Tutorials
Blockchain Tutorials
Linux Tutorials
JavaScript Tutorials
AngularJS Tutorials


Free Courses
 






Search for:












   











Big Data Tutorials
5















10 Best Big Data Analytics Tools for 2022 – With Uses & Limitations




Boost your career with Free Big Data Courses!!
In this blog on Best Big Data Analytics tools, we will learn about Best Data Analytic Tools. Also, will study these Data Analysis Tools: Tableau Public, OpenRefine, KNIME, RapidMiner, Google Fusion Tables, NodeXL, Wolfram Alpha, Google Search Operators, Solver, Dataiku DSS with their uses, limitations, and description.
Best Big Data Analytics Tools
List of Big Data Analytics Tools
Data Analytics is the process of analysing datasets to draw results, on the basis of information they get. It is popular in commercial industries, scientists and researchers to make a more informed business decision and to verify theories, models and hypothesis.
These are the 10 Best Big Data Analytic Tools with their uses and limitations, which can help you to analyse the data. Let’s discuss them one by one:

Tableau Public
OpenRefine
KNIME
RapidMiner
Google Fusion Tables
NodeXL
Wolfram Alpha
Google Search Operators
Solver
Dataiku DSS

a. Tableau Public
i. What is Tableau Public – Big Data Analytics Tools
It is a simple and intuitive tool. As it offers intriguing insights through data visualization. Tableau Public’s million-row limit. As it’s easy to use fares better than most of the other players in the data analytics market.
With Tableau’s visuals, you can investigate a hypothesis. Also, explore the data, and cross-check your insights.
ii. Uses of Tableau Public

You can publish interactive data visualizations to the web for free.


No programming skills required.

Visualizations published to Tableau Public can be embedded into blogs. Also, web pages and be shared through email or social media. The shared content can be made available s for downloads. This makes it the best Big Data Analytics tools.
iii. Limitations of Tableau Public

All data is public and offers very little scope for restricted access


Data size limitation


Cannot be connected to R.


The only way to read is via OData sources, is Excel or txt.

b. OpenRefine
i. What is OpenRefine – Data Analytic Tools
Formerly known as GoogleRefine, the data cleaning software. As it helps you clean up data for analysis. It operates on a row of data. Also, have cells under columns, quite similar to relational database tables.
ii. Uses of OpenRefine

Cleaning messy data
Transformation of data
Parsing data from websites

Adding data to the dataset by fetching it from web services. For instance, OpenRefine could be used for geocoding addresses to geographic coordinates.
iii. Limitations of OpenRefine

Open Refine is unsuitable for large datasets.


Refine does not work very well with big data

c. KNIME
i. What is KNIME – Data Analysis Tools
KNIME helps you to manipulate, analyze, and model data through visual programming. It is used to integrate various components for data mining and machine learning.
ii. Uses of KNIME

Don’t write blocks of code. Rather, you have to drop and drag connection points between activities.


This data analysis tool supports programming languages.

In fact, analysis tools like these can be extended to run chemistry data, text mining, python, and R.
iii. Limitation of KNIME

Poor data visualization

d. RapidMiner


Stay updated with latest technology trends
Join DataFlair on Telegram!!
i. What is RapidMiner – Data Analytic Tools
RapidMiner provides machine learning procedures. And data mining including data visualization, processing, statistical modeling and predictive analytics.
RapidMiner written in Java is fast gaining acceptance as a Big data analytics tool.
ii. Uses of RapidMiner

It provides an integrated environment for business analytics, predictive analysis.
Along with commercial and business applications, it is also used for application development.

iii. Limitations of RapidMiner

RapidMiner has size constraints with respect to the number of rows.


For RapidMiner, you need more hardware resources than ODM and SAS.

e. Google Fusion Tables
i. What is Google Fusion Tables
When comes to data tools, we have a cooler, larger version of Google Spreadsheets. An incredible tool for data analysis, mapping, and large dataset visualization. Also, Google Fusion Tables can be added to business analytics tools list. This is also one of the best Big Data Analytics tools.
ii. Uses of Google Fusion Tables

Visualize bigger table data online.


Filter and summarize across hundreds of thousands of rows.


Combine tables with other data on the web


You can merge two or three tables to generate a single visualization that includes sets of data.




You can create a map in minutes!



iii. Limitations of Google Fusion Tables

Only the first 100,000 rows of data in a table are included in query results or mapped.


The total size of the data sent in one API call cannot be more than 1MB.

f. NodeXL
i. What is NodeXL
It is a visualization and analysis software of relationships and networks. NodeXL provides exact calculations. It is a free (not the pro one) and open-source network analysis and visualization software.
NodeXL is one of the best statistical tools for data analysis. In which includes advanced network metrics. Also, access to social media network data importers, and automation.
ii. Uses of NodeXL
This is one of the data analysis tools in Excel that helps in the following areas:

Data Import


Graph Visualization


Graph Analysis


Data Representation

This software integrates into Microsoft Excel 2007, 2010, 2013, and 2016. It opens as a workbook with a variety of worksheets containing the elements of a graph structure. That is like nodes and edges.
This software can import various graph formats. Such adjacency matrices, Pajek .net, UCINet .dl, GraphML, and edge lists.
iii. Limitations of NodeXL

You need to use multiple seeding terms for a particular problem.


Running the data extractions at slightly different times.

g. Wolfram Alpha
i. What is Wolfram Alpha
It is a computational knowledge engine or answering engine founded by Stephen Wolfram.
ii. Uses of Wolfram Alpha

Is an add-on for Apple’s Siri


Provides detailed responses to technical searches and solves calculus problems.


Helps business users with information charts and graphs. And helps in creating topic overviews, commodity information, and high-level pricing history.

iii. Limitations of Wolfram Alpha

Wolfram Alpha can only deal with a publicly known number and facts, not with viewpoints.


It limits the computation time for each query.

Any doubt in these Statistical tools for Data Analysis? Please Comment.
h. Google Search Operators
i. What is Google Search Operators
It is a powerful resource which helps you filter Google results. That instantly to get most relevant and useful information.
ii. Uses of Google Search Operators

Faster filtering of Google search results


Google’s powerful data analysis tool can help discover new information.

i. Solver
i. What is Excel Solver
The Solver Add-in is a Microsoft Office Excel add-in program. Also, it is available when you install Microsoft Excel or Office. It is a linear programming and optimization tool in excel.
This allows you to set constraints. It is an advanced optimization tool that helps in quick problem-solving.
ii. Uses of Solver

the final values found by Solver are a solution to interrelation and decision.


It uses a variety of methods, from nonlinear optimization. And also linear programming to evolutionary and genetic algorithms, to find solutions.

iii. Limitations of Solver

Poor scaling is one of the areas where Excel Solver lacks.
It can affect solution time and quality.
Solver affects the intrinsic solvability of your model.

j. Dataiku DSS
i. What is Dataiku DSS
This is a collaborative data science software platform. Also, it helps a team build, prototype, explore. Although, it deliver their own data products more efficiently.
ii. Uses of Dataiku DSS
Dataiku DSS– Data analytic tools provide an interactive visual interface. As in this they can build, click, and point or use languages like SQL.
iii. Limitation of Dataiku DSS

Limited visualization capabilities
UI hurdles: Reloading of code/datasets
Inability to easily compile entire code into a single document/notebook
Still, need to integrate with SPARK

These were the top data analytics tools and this is all on Best Big Data Analytics tools.
Conclusion
As a result, we have studied Big Data Analytic Tools. Also, we learned these Data Analysis Tools: Tableau Public, OpenRefine, KNIME, RapidMiner, Google Fusion Tables, NodeXL, Wolfram Alpha, Google Search Operators,  Solver, Dataiku DSS uses, limitations along with a description.
I hope this blog on analytics tools will help you to understand Data Analytic Tools. Data Analytic Tools is a booming topic nowadays. Furthermore, if you have any query regarding Big data analytics tools, feel free to ask in a comment section.


Your 15 seconds will encourage us to work even harder
Please share your happy experience on Google | Facebook









Tags: Big Data Analytics ToolsBig Data Analytics Tools for 2019Data Analytics ToolsDataiku DSSGoogle Fusion TablesGoogle Search OperatorsKNIMENodeXLOpenRefineRapidMinerSolverTableau publictools for big data analyticsWolfram Alpha

5 Responses

Comments5
Pingbacks0






Iyer says: 

August 9, 2018 at 9:24 am 
This article is so well written it just made me understand the difference between all the analytics tools which made it so much easier for me to make the choice.
Reply





Data Flair says: 

August 18, 2018 at 6:56 am 
Hii Iyer,
Thank you very much for sharing your positive experience of Big Data Analytics Tools with us. You can check out more articles on Big Data, which will make Big Data learning easy for you. Sharing one with you, have a look.
https://data-flair.training/blogs/careers-job-roles-big-data-comprehensive-guide/
Hope it helps.
Reply







Chelsea Smith says: 

June 7, 2019 at 1:17 am 
Very well written! Would love to see OpenText-Magellan on this list. It’s a great data visualisation and analytics platform for customised dashboards and interactive visual reports.
Reply





Nishchay Agrawal says: 

April 22, 2020 at 2:00 pm 
Sir, I m fresher for big data from where we should start bug data along with Hadoop with video lectures and concepts.
Reply





Shamsher Khan says: 

July 26, 2021 at 5:36 pm 
I have read this and find many new tools. Thank You for such a useful information. But you did not include the Google Analytics in this isn’t it big tool.
Reply





Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment * Name * 
Email * 
Website 
This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. 

Δ 
 




 


Big Data Tutorials




Big Data – Introduction


Big Data – History


Big Data – Reasons to Learn


Big Data – Trends


Big Data – Reasons Behind its Hype


Big Data – Benefits


Big Data – Top Tools


Big Data – Application in Banking Sector


Big Data – Real Time Applications


Big Data – Why it is Popular


Big Data – Career Path


Big Data – Use Cases


Big Data – Apps in Healthcare


Big Data – Wildlife Conservation


Big Data – Agriculture


Big Data – Retail Industry


Big Data – Bank Industry


Big Data – Media & Entertainment


Big Data – Automobile Industry


Big Data – Travel and Tourism


Big Data – Education Sector


Big Data – Telecom Industry


Big Data – Top Case Studies


Big Data – Cloud Computing


Big Data – Lambda Architecture


Big Data – Analytics Tools


Big Data – Vulnerability


Big Data in Income Tax Department


Big Data – Careers & Jobs Roles


Big Data – Developer Skills


Why Choose a Career in Big Data


Big Data – Jobs for Freshers


Why Switch Career in Big Data


Big Data – BI Tools for Visualization


Big Data – Salesforce Acquires Tableau


Big Data at Flipkart


Big Data in Union Budget


Big Data vs Data Science


Career switch – Mainframe to Big Data


Big Data – Quotes




 

Hadoop Tutorials




Hadoop – Introduction
Hadoop – Why
Hadoop – Features
Hadoop – History
Hadoop – Ecosystem
Hadoop – Architecture
Hadoop – Pros and Cons
Hadoop – Analytics Tools
Hadoop – Internal Working
Hadoop – Commands
Hadoop – getmerge Command
Hadoop – copyFromLocal Command
Hadoop – Cluster
Hadoop – High Availability
Hadoop – Schedulers
Hadoop – Distributed Cache
Hadoop – Automatic Failover
Hadoop – Hadoop Streaming
Hadoop – Hadoop Security
Hadoop – Limitations & Solutions
Hadoop – Install Hadoop 2 on Ubuntu
Hadoop – Install multinode Cluster
What’s New in Hadoop 3
Hadoop – Install Hadoop 3
Hadoop – HBase Compaction & Data Locality
Hadoop 2.x vs Hadoop 3.x 
Hadoop – Best Books
Hadoop – Future
Hadoop – Career
Hadoop – Job Opportunities
Hadoop – Job Roles
Hadoop – Developer Salary
Hadoop – Certifications
Hadoop for Data Science
Hadoop vs Cassandra 
Hadoop vs MongoDB
Hadoop vs Spark vs Flink
Hadoop – Ecosystem Infographic






Hadoop Interview Questions


Hadoop Interview Que. – 1
Hadoop Interview Que. – 2
Hadoop Interview Que. – 3




Hadoop Quiz


Hadoop Quiz – Part 1
Hadoop Quiz – Part 2
Hadoop Quiz – Part 3
Hadoop Quiz – Part 4
Hadoop Quiz – Part 5
Hadoop Quiz – Part 6










 


 











 Home About us Contact us Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Disclaimer Write For Us Success Stories

 







DataFlair © 2022. All Rights Reserved.



 










