



  



Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Mass Messaging for Business - Cascade Business News












































































 

Twitter
Facebook
RSS




















Navigate 
News Pages

Building Central Oregon
Business & Industry
Business Profiles
Central Oregon Economic Indicators
Central Oregon RESET
City Spotlights
Editorial
E-Headlines
Healthcare
Hot News
Money & Investments
Feature Section
Spotlight on the Community
Transportation


Calendar

Business Events
Art and Community Events
Workshops


Business Tips

Customer Service
Development/Planning
Financial
Import-Export
Internet
Legal
Marketing
Networking
Personnel
Retailing
Sales
Trade Shows


Advertising

Distribution
Rates & Editorial Calendar


Resources

Accomplished Under 40
Community Resources
Local Chambers
What Businesses Are Saying
Women in Business Nomination Form
View Complete Cascade Business News Online
Central Oregon Nonprofit Organizations


Archives

Download Previous Cascade Business News Editions
Building Central Oregon-Archives
Business & Industry-Archives
Business Spotlight-Archives
Editorial-Archives
Feature Section-Archives
Healthcare-Archives
Hot News-Archives
Money and Investments-Archives
Spotlight on the Community-Archives
Transportation-Archives
E-Headlines-Archives


Got News?

About Us
Subscriptions


 



You are at:Home»News Pages»E-Headlines»Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Mass Messaging for Business 











		Advantages and Disadvantages of Using Mass Messaging for Business		
 0


By 
			CBN

on			
June 27, 2018


E-Headlines




Utilizing mass messaging throughout your marketing campaign has its pros and cons. On one hand, it’s an attractive and affordable way to get your message out fast. On the other hand, it can be hard to keep things fresh and innovative when you’re dealing with such a small medium. But either way, you have to analyze both the pros and cons of mass texting in order to evaluate how to best utilize it for your business text messaging.
Advantages
Marketing Booster
Text messages are a great way to alert your customers to another form of information. Whether through email or a website, text messages directly communicate with your customer and can easily forward them to a larger piece of information.
Real Time
When you choose to communicate through text messages, there’s no delay. You can make your messages as urgent as possible and get important information in the hands of your customers quickly. When you need a message out now, texting is the way to go.
Talking to Your Base
Due to customers having to opt-in, you get a direct line of communication to the customers who care the most about your brand and business. You won’t have to worry about bothering people that don’t want that extra bit of information. Also, you have the opportunity to personalize your message to particularly fit that secure customer base.
Utilizing a Reward System
Text messages provide an avenue to reward customers for being loyal to your business. You can use things like discounts, customer appreciation days, or special deals to advertise through mass messaging. These will also influence your customers to look at and interact with your messages more.
Getting Feedback
Text messaging is a convenient way for your customers to provide feedback to your business. You can invite them to speak their mind on social media or even participate in a survey.
Disadvantages
Staying Fresh
If you don’t keep your messages unique, then your customers are probably going to ignore them. Having a successful marketing campaign that involves text messaging requires a creative mind to ensure that these automated messages stay fresh to appeal to a customer’s eyes. Don’t be afraid to invite an outside party to help you make sure that your text messages are in the best shape they can be in.
Opting In
At the end of the day, the hardest challenge may be convincing your customers to opt-in. Don’t miss any opportunity to introduce signing-up to a customer, you never know how loyal they are to your brand. Tell them about the information that they might be missing out on (deals, discounts, etc.) and you may find yourself a new recipient.
Dealing With Short Messages
It’s difficult to fit a creative, brand-specific message in a short amount of characters. You often can’t utilize graphics or fonts either. By mastering this art you will be able to transform inconsistent customers into extremely loyal customers.
Even through these pros and cons, mass messaging can be a great way to stay connected with your customers and ensure customer satisfaction. Whether you use it in combination with another marketing method or alone as a quick alert, utilizing this medium will help you stay in touch with those who are serious about your business and your brand.





Share.


Twitter

Facebook

Google+

Pinterest

LinkedIn

Tumblr

Email



About Author



CBN






Related Posts







May 24, 2022 

						0

Older Adults Are Closing the Generation Gap on Technology Usage








May 24, 2022 

						0

St. Charles Foundation Grants $5,000 to Family Access Network








May 24, 2022 

						0

Grants Help Latino Association Serve More Families across Central Oregon







Leave A Reply Cancel Reply












 Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 

 












 







Most Read This Week


 posted on May 24, 2022Design Experts Explore Bend Rainbow Motel Site Ideas
 posted on May 24, 2022Warm Springs Wins $7.8 Million Housing Rehab Project
 posted on May 24, 2022Solaire Homebuilders — The Tradition of Energy Efficient Homes Continues with New Owners


 
Subscribe to our FREE E-News Headlines Tuesdays & Thursdays





Email
























 







 
 



 About

CASCADE BUSINESS NEWS
Cascade Business News (CBN), Central Oregon's business newspaper, is local and family-owned and operated by Jeff Martin. CBN is published the first and third Wednesdays of each month. CBN is a division of Cascade Publications Inc. 



Recent Articles





May 24, 2022 

							0

							Bridge Masters Reaching New Heights with Planned Expansion






May 24, 2022 

							0

							Design Experts Explore Bend Rainbow Motel Site Ideas






May 24, 2022 

							0

							Warm Springs Wins $7.8 Million Housing Rehab Project



Town & Country 




Copyright © 2021 Cascade Publications. Developed by Five Talent.




Privacy Policy
Sitemap
 



 















