




Alpaca Data API - API for Free Real-Time Stock Market Data



































































Alpaca
http://alpaca.markets/



















Businesses











Flexible Crypto and Stocks API













Flexible Crypto & Stocks API
Embed crypto & stocks into your app





DeveloperFirst API


Developer-First API
Simple yet comprehensive APIs





Scalable Infrastructure










Scalable Infrastructure
Powerful & customizable platform





Use Cases











Use Cases
Powering trading apps, fintechs & more





Regulatory Status





Regulatory Status
Carrying broker, FINRA & crypto licensed








Customer Stories

Arrow






Enablement Partners

Arrow






Learn Articles

Arrow













Individuals










Crypto





Crypto
Trade crypto like BTC, ETH & more





Stocks and ETFs





Stocks & ETFs
Buy and sell stocks & ETFs





Algorithmic Trading









Algorithmic Trading
Develop automated trading strategies





Market Data



Market Data
Real-time crypto & equity data





TradingView



TradingView
Access trading & advanced charting





Private Client





Private Client
Optimized access to Alpaca products









Integrated Apps

Arrow






Learn Articles

Arrow













Developers











Broker API












Broker API

                    Suite of APIs to build fintech apps & embed investing services
                  





Trading API









Trading API

                    Easy to use API for algorithmic trading of crypto & stocks
                  





Market Data API











Market Data API

                    Unlimited crypto & stock data via API & WebSocket
                  





OAuth Docs









OAuth Docs

                    Build applications connected to Alpaca Trading API
                  








Full API Reference

Arrow






OAuth Platform

Arrow






SDKs/Libraries

Arrow






Github

Arrow






API Status

Arrow






Support

Arrow













Community










Discord


Discord
Engage in community conversations





Slack


Slack
Connect with Alpaca traders & developers





Forum



Forum
Join Alpaca community discussions





Learn




Learn
Developer content, product guides &
                    more





FAQ



FAQ
Get support for Alpaca products








Alpaca Communities

Arrow













Who We Are










We're Hiring




We're Hiring
Join the Alpaca team





Contact Us




Contact Us
Get in touch with our team





Blog



Blog
Product updates & company news










Search















Log in






Sign up








Navigation Button

















Search




✕














Alpaca Data API - API for Free Real-Time Stock Market Data

By Yoshi Yokokawa •

							May 07, 2020
0 Comments






https://www.producthunt.com/posts/alpaca-data-apiAlpaca Data API to Access Real-Time Stock Market Data for FreeMarket data matters when you trade. That’s why we are excited to announce the Alpaca Data API, a brand new data product that we built from scratch to create the de facto standard market data offering for developers. We have worked hard to make the Alpaca Data API your go-to data API for building your algorithmic trading strategies or trading/investing applications. The Alpaca Data API provides real-time stock price data with up to 99.95% price accuracy* compared to other expensive consolidated market data feeds. Best of all, it’s completely free to use.All Alpaca users, regardless of account type or country of residence, can now access the Alpaca Data API. Free real-time stock market data API | Alpaca Data APIAlpaca is a modern platform for trading. Alpaca’s API is the interface for your trading algorithms, bots, or applications to communicate with Alpaca’s brokerage and other services.Alpaca(*as measured using 10-second snapshots of the Alpaca Data API last price vs. the SIP last price)Key Offerings of Alpaca Data API5 Stock Exchanges, up to 99.95% Price Accuracy*With the Alpaca Data API, you get access to data from 5 top US stock exchanges, providing you with comprehensive coverage of trading activity across the entire US stock market.This robust consolidated data feed enables you to research, develop, and run your trading strategies with more confidence. It also allows you to build trading applications where your end users can enjoy the benefits of high-quality display data. That’s because there is up to 99.95% price accuracy* between the Alpaca Data API and the SIP feed (100% coverage data feed) for actively traded stocks and ETFs. (*as measured using 10-second snapshots of the Alpaca Data API last price vs. the SIP last price)True Streaming Market Data via WebsocketsRegardless of your Alpaca account type, all Alpaca users now have access to true event-based streaming market data via Websockets, instead of being limited to pulling minute or daily bar data.This allows you to reduce your API calls and be more aware of market movements. You can also expect more stability in running your trading strategies and trading apps.Large Historical Data SetThe Alpaca Data API provides you with 5 years of historical data, allowing you to develop and test your strategies with confidence.Customizable Bar DataWhy be limited to only one period of bar data? The Alpaca Data API gives you access to 1, 5, 15, 30, and 60 minute bar data, in addition to daily, weekly, and monthly bar data. This helps enable strategy development across multiple time horizons, from intraday scalping algorithms to long-term asset allocation or buy and hold strategies.Evolution of the Alpaca Data APIhttps://alpaca.markets/docs/We strongly believe that market data is an essential piece of the user journey for developers when we build anything related to the financial market. With that said, we plan to continue to upgrade and work on Alpaca Data API such as we have been making many updates to the Alpaca Trading API.We truly appreciate your support for Alpaca’s API products, and we are looking forward to hearing from you about how you can utilize the Alpaca Data API.Please tweet your work and share them with us mentioning @AlpacaHQ!Follow @AlpacaHQ on Twitter!Brokerage services are provided by Alpaca Securities LLC ("Alpaca"), member FINRA/SIPC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AlpacaDB, Inc. Technology and services are offered by AlpacaDB, Inc.Market prices, data and other information available through Alpaca are not warranted as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. System response and account access times may vary due to a variety of factors, including trading volumes, market conditions, system performance, and other factors. A more complete description of the impact these factors may have can be found in our risks of automated trading systems section.




product update,market data,stock data,stock api



















 








			About Yoshi Yokokawa






			Co-founder & CEO of Alpaca

		


 




Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.

 


 Previous Post : Launching Alpaca Business Trading Accounts Beta

		 

        Next Post : Launching Newsletter for Quants & Developers 
 

















Subscribe to receive news and updates
















Developers
Trading API Docs
Broker API Docs
Market Data API Docs
OAuth Docs
Slack
Forum
Support
Learn
SDKs & Libraries
GitHub
API Status


About Us
Story
Newsletter
Blog
Contact
We're hiring



Disclosures
Disclosure Library
Form CRS
Form CRS Responses to Conversation Starters
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions








Discord












Twitter



AlpacaHQ
AlpacaWeb3
























Alpaca
http://alpaca.markets/

































					© 2022 Alpaca Securities LLC All rights reserved.

					

				    © 2022 Alpaca Crypto LLC All rights reserved.

					

					© 2022 AlpacaDB, Inc. All rights reserved.

					 

					Securities brokerage services are provided by Alpaca Securities LLC

					("Alpaca Securities"), member

					FINRA/SIPC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AlpacaDB, Inc. Technology and services

					are offered by AlpacaDB, Inc. 

					

					Cryptocurrency services are made available by Alpaca Crypto LLC ("Alpaca

					Crypto"), a FinCEN registered money services business (NMLS # 2160858),

					and a wholly-owned subsidiary of AlpacaDB, Inc. Alpaca Crypto is

					not a member of SIPC or FINRA. Cryptocurrencies are not stocks and your

					cryptocurrency investments are not protected by either FDIC or SIPC.

					Depending on your location, cryptocurrency services may be provided 

					by West Realm Shires Services, Inc., d/b/a FTX US (NMLS #1957771). 

					Please see the Disclosure Library for more information.

					

					This is not an offer, solicitation of an offer, or advice to buy or sell

					securities or cryptocurrencies, or open a brokerage account or

					cryptocurrency account in any jurisdiction where 

					Alpaca Securities, Alpaca Crypto, or FTX US respectively, are not registered or licensed, as applicable.

					
!  View Important Disclosures



Disclosures




										Brokerage services are provided by Alpaca Securities,

										member FINRA/SIPC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of AlpacaDB, Inc.

									
Technology and services are offered by AlpacaDB, Inc.


										Brokerage services are provided to customers who can write automated

										investment code and self-direct their own investments. Alpaca

										brokerage services are only provided to customers who agree to

										electronically sign agreements and agree to receive messages,

										confirmations, and statements electronically.

										Is Alpaca right for me?



										This is not an offer, solicitation of an offer, or advice to buy or

										sell securities or cryptocurrencies, or open a brokerage account or

										cryptocurrency account in any jurisdiction where 

										Alpaca Securities, Alpaca Crypto, or FTX US respectively, are not registered or licensed, as applicable.

									


										The Paper Trading API is offered by AlpacaDB, Inc. and does not

										require real money or permit a user to transact in real securities

										in the market. Providing use of the Paper Trading API is not an

										offer or solicitation to buy or sell securities, securities

										derivative or futures products of any kind, or any type of trading

										or investment advice, recommendation or strategy, given or in any

										manner endorsed by AlpacaDB, Inc. or any AlpacaDB, Inc. affiliate

										and the information made available through the Paper Trading API is

										not an offer or solicitation of any kind in any jurisdiction where

										AlpacaDB, Inc. or any AlpacaDB, Inc. affiliate (collectively, "Alpaca") is not authorized to

										do business.

									


										You should know that the use or granting of any third party access

										to your account information or place transactions in your account at

										your direction is solely at your risk. Alpaca does not warrant

										against loss of use or any direct, indirect or consequential damages

										or losses to you caused by your assent, expressed or implied, to a

										third party accessing your account or information, including access

										provided through any other third party apps, systems, or sites.

									


										Market prices, data and other information available through Alpaca

										are not warranted as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to

										change without notice.

										System response and account access times may vary due to a

										variety of factors, including trading volumes, market conditions,

										system performance, and other factors.

										A more complete description of the impact these factors may have can

										be found in our

										risks of automated trading systems section.

									


										All investments involve risk and the past performance of a security,

										or financial product does not guarantee future results or returns.

										Keep in mind that while diversification may help spread risk it does

										not assure a profit, or protect against loss, in a down market.

										There is always the potential of losing money when you invest in

										securities, or other financial products. Investors should consider

										their investment objectives and risks carefully before investing.

									


										There are risks unique to automated trading algorithms that you

										should know about and plan for. You should setup a method or system

										of continuous monitoring or alerting to let you know if there is a

										mechanical failure, such as connectivity issues, power loss, a

										computer crash, or system quirk. You should also monitor for

										instances where your automated trading system experiences anomalies

										that could result in errant, missing, or duplicated orders. A more

										complete description of these and other risks can be found in our

										FAQ section.



										Conditional orders may have increased risk as a result of their

										reliance on trigger processing, market data, and other internal and

										external systems. Such orders are not sent to the market until

										specified conditions are met. During that time, issues such as

										system outages with downstream technologies or third parties may

										occur. Conditional orders triggering near the market close may fail

										to execute that day. Furthermore, our executing partner may impose

										controls on conditional orders to limit erroneous trades triggering

										downstream orders. Alpaca Securities may not always be made aware of

										such changes to external controls immediately, which may lead to

										some conditional orders not being executed. As such, it is important

										to monitor conditional orders for reasonability. Conditional orders

										are “Not Held” orders whose execution instructions are on a best

										efforts basis upon being triggered. Furthermore, conditional orders

										may be subject to the increased risks of stop orders and market

										orders outlined above. Given the increased potential risk of using

										conditional orders, the client agrees that Alpaca Securities cannot

										be held responsible for losses, damages, or missed opportunity costs

										associated with market data problems, systems issues, and user

										error, among other factors. By using conditional orders the client

										understands and accepts the risks outlined above. Alpaca Securities

										encourages leveraging the use of Paper accounts to become more

										comfortable with the intricacies associated with these orders.

									


										ETFs can entail risks similar to direct stock ownership, including

										market, sector, or industry risks. Some ETFs may involve

										international risk, currency risk, commodity risk, and interest rate

										risk. Trading prices may not reflect the net asset value of the

										underlying securities.

									


										All accounts are opened as limited purpose margin accounts. You should know that

										margin trading involves interest charges and risks, including the

										potential to lose more than deposited or the need to deposit

										additional collateral in a falling market. Before using margin,

										customers must determine whether this type of trading strategy is

										right for them given their specific investment objectives,

										experience, risk tolerance, and financial situation. For more

										information please see

										Alpaca's Margin Disclosure Statement

										and

										Margin Agreement.

										These disclosures contain information on Alpaca Securities's lending policies,

										interest charges, and the risks associated with margin accounts.

									


										Commission-Free trading means that there are no commission charges

										for Alpaca Securities self-directed individual brokerage accounts that

										trade U.S. listed securities through an API.

										Relevant regulatory fees may apply.



										Cryptocurrency is highly speculative in nature, involves a high

										degree of risks, such as volatile market price swings, market

										manipulation, flash crashes, and cybersecurity risks. Cryptocurrency

										is not regulated or is lightly regulated in most countries.

										Cryptocurrency trading can lead to large, immediate and permanent

										loss of financial value. You should have appropriate knowledge and

										experience before engaging in cryptocurrency trading. For additional

										information please click

										here.



										Cryptocurrency services are made available by Alpaca Crypto, 

										a FinCEN registered money services business (NMLS # 2160858), 

										and a wholly-owned subsidiary of AlpacaDB, Inc. Alpaca Crypto 

										is not a member of SIPC or FINRA. Cryptocurrencies are not

										stocks and your cryptocurrency investments are not protected by

										either FDIC or SIPC. Depending on your location, cryptocurrency services may be provided by FTX US (NMLS #1957771). 

										Please see the Disclosure Library for more information.

									
© 2022 Alpaca Securities LLC All rights reserved.
© 2022 Alpaca Crypto LLC All rights reserved.
© 2022 AlpacaDB, Inc. All rights reserved.











×You've successfully subscribed to Alpaca Blog | Developer-First API for Crypto and Stocks



×Great! Next, complete checkout for full access to Alpaca Blog | Developer-First API for Crypto and Stocks



×Welcome back! You've successfully signed in.



×Success! Your account is fully activated, you now have access to all content.



























    Alpaca and selected third parties use cookies on this website as specified
    in the
    cookie policy. You accept the use of these cookies or other identifiers
    by pressing ‘Accept’, closing this notice, or logging into your account.
  


      Accept
    


