



























Big Data in Telecoms means Better Service - SQLstream | Streaming SQL Analytics for Kafka & Kinesis
































































SQLstream provides the power to create streaming Kafka & Kinesis applications with continuous SQL queries to discover, analyze and act on data in real time.




 

SQLstream

why SQL?
platform
Connectors
Kafka
Kinesis
StreamApps
Deployment


capabilities

Ingestion
discovery
wrangling
enrichment
analytics
machine learning
action
visualization
stream & sink


Use cases

solutions
Roles
Industries

Finance
Retail & Advertising
IoT
Telecom
Smart City
Smart Energy




company

news
clients
Blog
Contact Us


resources

Getting started
downloads
Docs



















 

















Big Data in Telecoms means Better Service







Share This




























 



The potential for Big Data in Telecoms is immense, with the global big data market in the telecom sector growing at a CAGR of 55.24% over the period 2011-2015. Streaming integration and analysis of call data records (CDRs and IPDRs)combined with customer, device, location and network data is at the forefront of Big Data revolution in telecoms, offering real-time analysis and decisioning across a wide range of applications including real-time rating, least-cost routing, customer experience, location-based services and service performance. 
Ahead-of-the-curve Telcos are starting to look into stream processing platforms that enable service providers to deliver real-time, actionable intelligence about their customers, billing, network and service operations- all while taking control of their system development and lifecycle costs.
But where’s the value coming from? Telecommunications has always presented a complex management problem. Many companies are struggling to deliver real-time performance and analytics as data volume, velocity and variety increase. But while the scale of the problem is exploding with the move towards all-IP networks, on-demand services and packet bandwidth, there remains an on-going focus on reduction of IT costs and the rationalization of the systems landscape. 
A proper streaming Big Data solution can address, once and for all:

Dynamic network operations (congestion, failures, traffic, bandwidth);
QoS/QoE (failures, service activation and degradation, SLAs, hogging);
Revenue management (real-time rating, charging, billing and billing integration);
Call fraud (real-time fraud and roaming fraud detection).

For more information on real-time applications and how to implement them on a stream processing platform, read our whitepaper on CDR analytics. From this, you will learn how streaming analytics can be applied in wireless, cable, wireline, VoIP and other SIP-based service providers:

How to leverage streaming Big Data technology to integrate and analyze streams of CDR, device, network and service data in real-time;
Ways to enrich the customer experience, deepen subscriber relationships, and drive automated actions to optimize service and network performance in real-time;
Optimized Customer Care workflows for efficient troubleshooting and reduced costs;
Real-time fraud detection and prevention from CDR analytics for cost reduction and improved customer satisfaction.











Big Data in Motionreal-time analyticsstream processingstreaming analyticstelecommunications 











Previous PostSelf-Service for Real-time Analytics from Machine Data Streams 
blog, Streaming Analytics 


Next PostSQLstream and Cibertec Internacional S.A. Partnership Brings Real-time Big Data Solutions To Telecoms 
blog, Streaming Analytics 



















 Follow us on  Follow us on  Follow us on  Follow us on  RESOURCES


  

 















Guavus SQLstream’s mission is to make real-time stream analytics easy to use and own with a one-stop-shop solution that performs the best, has the widest footprint, never turns off, and can be developed and customized by data scientists and engineers alike.
Our ProductPlatform
Connectors
deployment modes
why SQL?
About uscompany
news
contact
Blog
 







©2021 Guavus, Inc. All Rights Reserved. SQLstream® is a registered trademark of Guavus, Inc.






































