














Choosing Between Kafka and RabbitMQ
        























 














LinkedIn and 3rd parties use essential and non-essential cookies to provide, secure, analyze and improve our Services, and to show you relevant ads (including professional and job ads) on and off LinkedIn. Learn more in our Cookie Policy.Select Accept to consent or Reject to decline non-essential cookies for this use. You can update your choices at any time in your settings.



                Accept
                

                Reject
                


 





LinkedIn






              Maria Hatfield, PhD
 
Expand search










              Jobs
            



              People
            



              Learning
            












Dismiss






Dismiss

















Dismiss


 











Dismiss


 

















Dismiss














          Join now
        
Sign in





 







 




 




              Choosing Between Kafka and RabbitMQ
            









                  Report this post
                


 







            
          
        Maria Hatfield, PhD
      
      
          




            
        Maria Hatfield, PhD
      
          

              
        Managing Partner - Kafka, Pulsar, Elasticsearch Services
      
            


              
        
          Published Nov 15, 2018
      
      
            



          + Follow
        





Today on the blog we are discussing the most important factors to consider when choosing a message broker with a focus on two of the most popular ones:  Kafka and RabbitMQ.  (Link to full article.)What makes Apache Kafka great?  Kafka is ideal for handling large amounts of homogeneous messages, such as logs or metric, and it is the right choice for instances with high throughput.Kafka doesn’t come prepacked with a friendly graphical user interface. However, it is possible to create one using Kibana. See our post on monitoring Kafka for examples of what Kafka monitoring looks like with Elasticsearch and Kibana.There are also other considerations like Kafka's ability to replay messages and its horizontal scaling capability.  See the full article for a thorough review.What makes RabbitMQ great?   RabbitMQ can be a good choice for instances with lower throughput. RabbitMQ is slower than Kafka but provides an optimal REST API as well as an approachable graphic user interface (GUI) for monitoring queues.See the full article for details about discrete messaging, multiprotocol support, security, and more.What about Redis?   Being in-memory only, Redis is faster than even Kafka. It works best for customers whose destination can receive data far faster than the data can be generated.Continue reading about choosing a message broker:  Kafka vs. RabbitMQ:  How to choose an open source message broker.












            35
        

 




Like




Comment




Share





        To view or add a comment, sign in
      
      To view or add a comment, sign in









More articles by this author


              See all
            



 



 









 


          Issues to Anticipate When Running Kafka on Kubernetes
        

            Apr 15, 2022
          

 






 


          5 Optimizations for Kafka Consumers
        

            Jun 28, 2021
          

 






 


          What is Elasticsearch?
        

            May 18, 2021
          

 

























          Others also viewed
        








 


            
        7 design considerations to make JMS to Kafka migration successful
      
 




Vijay Alagarasan

          

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    

    2y
  
        









 


            
        How do RE agents and investors just like you Profit from this Social Media cycle ?

      
 




Yousef Emad

          

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    

    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    

    1mo
  
        













LinkedIn

© 2022



            About
          



            Accessibility
          



            User Agreement
          



            Privacy Policy
          



            Cookie Policy
          



            Copyright Policy
          



            Brand Policy
          



            Guest Controls
          



            Community Guidelines
          








                العربية (Arabic)
            




                Čeština (Czech)
            




                Dansk (Danish)
            




                Deutsch (German)
            




English (English)





                Español (Spanish)
            




                Français (French)
            




                हिंदी (Hindi)
            




                Bahasa Indonesia (Bahasa Indonesia)
            




                Italiano (Italian)
            




                日本語 (Japanese)
            




                한국어 (Korean)
            




                Bahasa Malaysia (Malay)
            




                Nederlands (Dutch)
            




                Norsk (Norwegian)
            




                Polski (Polish)
            




                Português (Portuguese)
            




                Română (Romanian)
            




                Русский (Russian)
            




                Svenska (Swedish)
            




                ภาษาไทย (Thai)
            




                Tagalog (Tagalog)
            




                Türkçe (Turkish)
            




                简体中文 (Chinese (Simplified))
            




                正體中文 (Chinese (Traditional))
            



Language





 






