








How to make a Stock Market dashboard in Google Data Studio











































































 




 









Michael Howe-Ely






Home
Blog
About
Contact

Search













 















How to make a Stock Market dashboard in Google Data Studio27 Aug 2019|In Blog, Google Data Studio, Google Sheets|By Michael
In this post I’ll explain the steps to creating a Stock Market dashboard in Google Data Studio. This will display the prices of shares in companies.

I’ve created one below, but you can customize the various stocks shown to what interests you.

 
1. Create a Google Sheet with Company share prices
The first step is to use one of the Google Finance formulas to get share prices.
For example, the formula below allows us to get share prices for today and a previous point in time.
=GOOGLEFINANCE(ticker, [attribute], [start_date], [end_date|num_days], [interval])  
For example, the formula below gets the price for Google for today and the previous 365 days.
=GOOGLEFINANCE(“GOOG”,”price”,TODAY()-365,TODAY())

If we place this in the top left cell of a spreadsheet, we get a list of all the dates and share prices.

We can do this for a range of different stocks, so we can have multiple different share prices.
In this example, I decided to get the share prices for the following companies and place them in a separate sheet within one Google Sheets spreadsheet.

Now we have our different share prices, and we can start thinking about creating a Data Studio report with them.
However, we first need to place them into a separate spreadsheet in order for the data to be pulled in correctly to Data Studio from Google Sheets.
2. Create a second Google Sheet to act as a Data Source
Much like the previous post, How to create a five year Currency Exchange Rate report in Google Data Studio, we need to create a second Google Sheet with our data so that it pulls correctly for Data Studio.
The reason for this was that I encountered issues pulling data from the original Google Sheet to Google Data Studio. I’m not entirely sure what the problem was / is but I found creating a second sheet solved it. You might not have this issue.
To do this we need to use the IMPORTRANGE function.
=IMPORTRANGE(spreadsheet_url, range_string)  
We can then import the data from our Combined data sheet into a new spreadsheet. 

This sheet will be the data source for Google Data Studio.
3. Create the Google Data Studio report
Add in the data from our second Google Sheet into Google Data Studio. We can change the type to Currency > USD.

From there, you can do what you want with the Data Studio. In this example report I’ve used scorecards, time series charts to show the data.
The chart below shows the stocks over time.

The data is set up like this; 

To get around the issue that some days (for example saturdays and sundays) may have no values you need to change one of the time series settings to ‘Linear Interpolation’. You can find this setting in the Style tab of the line chart.

I’ve also setup various scorecards for the different stocks, and added the company logos.

Because I’ve set the report up to show the close price of the previous day, it’s possible that sometimes these scorecards show “no data”.
There are a lot of different ways to use the Google Finance functions, so spend time playing around and experimenting. You can customize them for your own Stock Market dashboard if that’s something you’d want to make.

Download Google Data Studio Templates
If you’d like to download one of my Google Data Studio reports as a template to use for your own data, you can visit Data Studio Templates and purchase one.


My Other Blog Posts
If you liked this article you might like my other blog posts.













Or you can follow me on Twitter!



			11 Comments		







lee 
15 Dec 2019
In step 1, toward the Botton where are you showing all stock on to one google sheet. how do you get the date to update so the data stay relevant? This is pretty confusing and the Vlookup function will not work unless you update the date into the combined sheet. thank you for sharing.
Reply 







Michael 
16 Dec 2019
The formula always displays data for the previous year, so it is always up to date. =GOOGLEFINANCE(“GOOG”,”price”,TODAY()-365,TODAY())
Reply 









nk 
27 Jun 2020
Since GOOGLEFINANCE API generates price of weekdays, there is no data of weekends in step 1. When I generate time series graph with the data, the graph shows that the price in weekends as $0. How did you handle this?
And why do we need to create a second Google Sheet? Why not using the original sheet?
Also, it will be very helpful that you share the example link of google sheet and data studio.
Reply 







Michael 
27 Jun 2020
Hi NK
Thanks for raising these questions. I’ve updated the blog post.
To get around the issue that some days (for example saturdays and sundays) may have no values you need to change one of the time series settings to ‘Linear Interpolation’. You can find this setting in the Style tab of the line chart.
So if I remember correctly there was an issue pulling data from the first sheet. It simply did not appear in google data studio when I tried it. Using the IMPORTRANGE function and copying the data into a second sheet, and then connecting the second sheet to Google Data Studio solved the issue for me.
I don’t think I’m able to share the link to the google sheet, but are you not able to re-create it using the information I have provided?
Reply 







chris 
11 Sep 2020
Hi thanks so much for this article. I’m trying to do something similar to you. I’m unfamiliar with the Studio but I’ll look into it. Looks interesting. I have just been using Google Sheets. My problem is…I can do the historical information…that’s easy enough. But I’d like to try and get real time data plotted on a chart. The googlefinance function has real time data but I cannot figure out how to freeze the data once it has been displayed. The googlefinance function updates every few minutes or so. Since it is a volatile function it just updates to the current time and the previous value is lost forever. Is there a way you can think of to save the data so that it doesn’t disappear? This way it could be plotted in a daily chart…
Reply 







Michael 
11 Sep 2020
Hi I’m not too familiar with the details of google finance in google sheets. Hope you manage to figure it out!
Reply 







NoobInvester 
19 Jan 2021
You cannot create a real-time dashboard as the numbers are delayed by 20 minutes. Check the help center page under attribute – “price” – Real-time price quote, delayed by up to 20 minutes.
Reply 













Ann 
3 Sep 2020
Thanks for the tutorial! I’m going to dig further into it but I’m wondering if it’s possible to add any filtering Data Studio to only show certain companies. I’d like to see how my portfolio is fairing over time but say I wanted to just see a category, like “online service” which would only show me Facebook and Twitter in the graph. Is that possible? I’ve been trying to find guides on this but haven’t gotten very far.
Reply 







Michael 
3 Sep 2020
Sure – you could add in a filter to filter only specific companies or switch between companies.
Reply 









mike 
28 Oct 2020
When I try to import the data sheet, the only dimension it is giving me is ‘Record Count’. Have you encountered this error?
Reply 







Michael 
30 Oct 2020
Do you mean the ‘metric’ is record count?
Maybe you need to switch the Stock values from text to number?
Reply 








Add comment Cancel replyComment Name * 
Email * 
Website 
 

 

















Recent Posts


How to make a simple Cryptocurrency Price report in Google Data Studio


How to build a simple Bitcoin and Ethereum dashboard in Google Data Studio


How to combine string fields in Google Data Studio


How to map Growth in Google Analytics sessions by Country in Data Studio


Comparing Cape Town and Toronto


TagsAnalytics
BigQuery
Blending data
Calculated Fields
Canada
CASE statements
Charts
COVID-19
Currency
Custom fields
Dashboard
Data
Data Studio
Data Visualization
Events
Excel
Filters
Formulas
Geo Maps
Google Analytics
Google BigQuery
Google Data Studio
Google Forms
Google Maps
Google Search Console
Google Sheets
Google Tag Manager
GTM
Images
Map
Maps
Microsoft Excel
Parameters
public data
Public Data-sets
Real world data
Search Console
Search queries
South Africa
Spreadsheets
Tags
Triggers
Twitter
Video
YouTube
Categories

BigQuery

Blog

Ecommerce

Excel

Google Ads

Google Analytics

Google Data Studio

Google Search Console

Google Sheets

Google Tag Manager

Movies and TV

Real World Data

Social Media

SQL

Surveys

Tableau

Travel


Archives

Sep 2021
Apr 2021
Dec 2020
Sep 2020
Aug 2020
Jul 2020
Jun 2020
May 2020
Apr 2020
Mar 2020
Feb 2020
Jan 2020
Dec 2019
Nov 2019
Oct 2019
Sep 2019
Aug 2019
Jul 2019
Jun 2019
May 2019
Apr 2019
Mar 2019
Feb 2019
Jan 2019












PrevNext




 




© 2022 Michael Howe-Ely. All rights reserved

 















Are you ok with Cookies?We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Do not sell my personal information.Cookie SettingsAcceptManage consent




Close






Privacy Overview 
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.

 





								Necessary							


Necessary

Always Enabled




									Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
CookieDurationDescriptioncookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional11 monthsThe cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".cookielawinfo-checkbox-others11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance11 monthsThis cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".viewed_cookie_policy11 monthsThe cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data. 






								Functional							


Functional





									Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
								






								Performance							


Performance





									Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
								






								Analytics							


Analytics





									Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
								






								Advertisement							


Advertisement





									Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
								






								Others							


Others





									Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
								












SAVE & ACCEPT
























