










microservices Archives - High Cohesion Loose Coupling















































 














Menu




Blog
Consultancy
My Online Course
My GitHub Projects
Privacy Policy/Polityka prywatności
 

   









 
 






High Cohesion Loose Coupling.

 


 









Tag: microservices 






  
 

Celebrate New Requirements 

In Building SystemsTags architecture, loose coupling, messaging, microservices2016-07-18 Bartosz Kaminski 

There is a trading system. Handling all of the complexities related to offers acceptance, negotiations and final approval. A new requirement jumps in. You now have to report on daily basis all the finalised trades to the 3rd party organisation according to the latest regulations in your country. Additionally, some of the suppliers (“customers” in the trading system) may benefit from these reports. In this case however, it will be them who ask for data. Now the enterprise world opens up. The core of …  


Continue Reading 









 
 


 


Site Sidebar



 
 
 


Site Footer




About MeMy name is Bartosz Kaminski. I am a software engineer, looking for simple and elegant software design achieved by great teams. My professional interests revolve around distributed systems, microservices, DDD, motivation and building great teams. 

Social Profiles 




											© 2020 Bartosz Kaminski. All Rights Reserved.										











Sliding Sidebar


About MeMy name is Bartosz Kaminski. I am a software engineer, looking for simple and elegant software design achieved by great teams. My professional interests revolve around distributed systems, microservices, DDD, motivation and building great teams.Social Profiles How to Become a Software Developer From Scratch – Online Course!2020-11-03A Case Study with Flink and Kafka (plus Spring and Cassandra and Kubernetes and Docker) – coooool stuff2020-11-19Catching up – it’s all on my GitHub2020-11-03JEE Performance with JMeter, Prometheus and Grafana. Complete Project from Scratch.2017-10-08  
 














This site uses cookies/Ta strona wykorzystuje cookies.  Find out more in Privacy Policy/Zapoznaj się z polityką prywatności.Okay, thank you 
