








RabbitMQ vs Kafka vs ActiveMQ: What are the differences? - Özgür Özkök










































































 



 















        Close    

Ana Sayfa
Blog
İçindekiler

Yazılımda Ustalaşmak
Yazılım Geliştirmek
Ödeme Sistemleri
Yapay Zeka, AI ( Artificial Intelligence)
Teknoloji Haberleri
Yazılımcılık Dersleri
İçindekiler


Hakkımda
İletişim
 
 




Özgür Özkök




Ana Sayfa
Blog
İçindekiler

Yazılımda Ustalaşmak
Yazılım Geliştirmek
Ödeme Sistemleri
Yapay Zeka, AI ( Artificial Intelligence)
Teknoloji Haberleri
Yazılımcılık Dersleri
İçindekiler


Hakkımda
İletişim









 






 2020-02-16 RabbitMQ vs Kafka vs ActiveMQ: What are the differences?




RabbitMQ, Kafka, and ActiveMQ are all messaging technologies used to provide asynchronous communication and decouple processes (detaching the sender and receiver of a message). 
They are called message queues, message brokers, or messaging tools. RabbitMQ, Kafka, and ActiveMQ all serve the same basic purpose, but can go about their jobs differently. 
Kafka is a high-throughput distributed messaging system. RabbitMQ is an AMQP based reliable message broker. ActiveMQ and Kafka are both Apache products, and both written in Java; RabbitMQ is written in Erlang.
Developers describe ActiveMQ as “A message broker written in Java together with a full JMS client“. Apache ActiveMQ is fast, supports many Cross Language Clients and Protocols, comes with easy to use Enterprise Integration Patterns and many advanced features while fully supporting JMS 1.1 and J2EE 1.4. Apache ActiveMQ is released under the Apache 2.0 License. 
On the other hand, RabbitMQ is detailed as “A messaging broker – an intermediary for messaging“. RabbitMQ gives your applications a common platform to send and receive messages, and your messages a safe place to live until received.
ActiveMQ and RabbitMQ can be categorized as “Message Queue” tools.
“Open source” is the primary reason why developers consider ActiveMQ over the competitors, whereas “It’s fast and it works with good metrics/monitoring” was stated as the key factor in picking RabbitMQ.
for the original discussion and the other reviews please visit  https://stackshare.io/stackups/activemq-vs-kafka-vs-rabbitmq
TweetDaha fazlaTelegramWhatsAppYazdırBunu beğen:Beğen Yükleniyor...

Related


 2020-02-16  özgür özkök  (2) Software, Yazılım, cloud, server  Apache ActiveMQ, Apache Kafka, RabbitMQ 



Tepeye Dön
 











	Gizlilik ve Çerezler: Bu sitede çerez kullanılmaktadır. Bu web sitesini kullanmaya devam ederek bunların kullanımını kabul edersiniz. 
Çerezlerin nasıl kontrol edileceği dahil, daha fazla bilgi edinmek için buraya bakın:
		
		Çerez Politikası	

Hakkımda Yazılım ustası, ödeme servisleri ve perakende satış sistemleri uzmanı, deneyimli yönetici.

Beni Takip Edin


GitHub   


Behance   


   


Flickr   


   


Instagram   


Instagram   




En Popüler Yazılar


RabbitMQ vs Kafka vs ActiveMQ: What are the differences?


AT&T Archives: The UNIX Operating System


Yazılım Test Otomasyon Araçları


SATILIK: 463.378 adet Türk Kullanıcısının Kredi Kart bilgisi


Linux Nano Kullanımı


Which is Better?Amazon Elasticsearch Service vs Elasticsearch Service on Elastic Cloud


Gradle threw an error while downloading artifacts from the network


Pink Floyd – Another Brick In The Wall – 400 musicians rock flashmob – CityRocks cover


How to configure PATH and CLASSPATH for Java in Mac OS


SOFTMAX Fonksiyonu Nedir?





EtiketlerAdobe Inc.
akin kaldiroglu
alibaba
amazon
Amazon Web Services, AWS
android studio
Bash (GNU Bash)
clean code
cloud kitchen
conversation
Conway's Law
delivery
DIGI
docker
emacs
finland
git
github
google
Guido van Rossum
IBM
Istanbul
javafx
kubernetes
linus torvalds
magento
melvin conway
Netflix
onion architecture
openssl
openstack
pentax
Plaza
Prekarya
puppet
python frameworks
Rekabet Kurumu
Robert Cecil Martin (Uncle Bob)
Smart City
software craftsmanship
Spring Cloud Framework
test driven development
VsCode, Visual Studio Code
yazılım test
İstanbul, Kadıköy
 


Son Yazılar


Getir plans to cut aggressive expansion plans


Ghost Kitchens Are the Wave of the Future


DOORDASH OPENS A GHOST KITCHEN IN BROOKLYN—WITH SEATING


Scaling Agile: The Small-is-Beautiful of Hubs


REST: I Don’t Think it Means What You Think it Does


Foreign food delivery drivers stage rare strike in Dubai


What Is Toxic Productivity? And 5 Tips To Overcome It


A California startup is offering cocoon-like pods to allow 14 residents to share a single house as an escape from soaring rents and real estate prices


SHA-1 has broken in practice


Semantic Commit Messages


 



Özgür Özkök









					Göster				




























%d blogcu bunu beğendi:












































































































































































