









Sqoop vs Flume – Battle of the Hadoop ETL tools 





 






































































Solved Projects


Customer Reviews


Custom Project Path New 

Data Science Project Path
Big Data Project Path



Blog


Write for ProjectPro







End to End Projects









Sqoop vs. Flume Battle of the Hadoop ETL tools 

 Last Updated: 23 May 2022



GET NOW





Apache Hadoop is synonymous with big data for its cost-effectiveness and its attribute of scalability for processing petabytes of data. Data analysis using hadoop is just half the battle won. Getting data into the Hadoop cluster plays a critical role in any big data deployment. Data ingestion is important in any big data project because the volume of data is generally in petabytes or exabytes. Hadoop Sqoop and Hadoop Flume are the two tools in Hadoop which is used to gather data from different sources and load them into HDFS. Sqoop in Hadoop is mostly used to extract structured data from databases like Teradata, Oracle, etc., and Flume in Hadoop is used to sources data which is stored in various sources like and deals mostly with unstructured data.
Big data systems are popular for processing huge amounts of unstructured data from multiple data sources. The complexity of the big data system increases with each data source. Most of the business domains have different data types like marketing genes in healthcare, audio and video systems, telecom CDR, and social media. All these have diverse data sources and data from these sources is consistently produced on large scale.





Making real time decision on incoming data using Flume and Kafka 


 Downloadable solution code | Explanatory videos | Tech Support 


Start Project



The challenge is to leverage the resources available and manage the consistency of data. Data ingestion is complex in hadoop because processing is done in batch, stream or in real time which increases the management and complexity of data. Some of the common challenges with data ingestion in Hadoop are parallel processing, data quality, machine data on a higher scale of several gigabytes per minute, multiple source ingestion, real-time ingestion and scalability. Apache Sqoop and Apache Flume are two popular open source etl tools for hadoop that help organizations overcome the challenges encountered in data ingestion. If you are looking to find the answer to the question -"What's the difference between Flume and Sqoop?" then you are on the right page. The major difference between Sqoop and Flume is that Sqoop is used for loading data from relational databases into HDFS while Flume is used to capture a stream of moving data.


Table of Contents


Hadoop ETL tools:  


Sqoop vs Flume-Comparison of the two Best Data Ingestion Tools
What is Sqoop in Hadoop?
Need for Apache Sqoop
How Apache Sqoop works?
Features of Apache Sqoop
Companies Using Apache Sqoop

What is Flume in Hadoop?
Need for Flume
How Apache Flume works?
Features of Apache Flume
Companies Using Apache Flume

Difference between Sqoop and Flume
Sqoop vs Flume - Architecture
Sqoop vs Flume - Use cases



Hadoop ETL tools:  
 ETL tools are used to move data between different systems. Data is said to be collected from multiple sources and represented in a destination in a different manner or in a different context than the data in the sources. For example, customer data is important for companies to track orders and ensure that their customers receive these orders. This same customer data is also used for further analysis and processing to identify buying patterns in the customers so that companies can handle their inventory accordingly. The data is essentially the same in both cases, but it is used to serve different purposes. In such cases, the data is copied into different systems to fulfill each purpose. 
The Hadoop ecosystem provides a variety of open-source technologies tailored for the purpose of ETL. They enable the connection of various data sources to the Hadoop environment. The data sources can refer to databases, machine data, web APIs, relational databases, flat files, log files, and RSS (RDF Site Summary) feeds, to name a few. Some of the ETL tools provided by Hadoop are:

Apache Flume


Apache Sqoop


Apache HBase


Apache Hive


Apache Oozie


Apache Phoenix


Apache Pig


Apache ZooKeeper

The selection of an ETL tool has to be determined considering several factors, including the amount of data, the rate of new data generation, the rate at which the data has to be processed, the source from which the data is to be collected and the type of data involved. The aim of selecting an ETL tool is to ensure that data is moving into Hadoop at a frequency that can meet the analytic requirements.

 New Projects 




PySpark Project-Build a Data Pipeline using Hive and Cassandra


View Project





Build a real-time Streaming Data Pipeline using Flink and Kinesis


View Project





Linear Regression Model Project in Python for Beginners Part 2


View Project





PyTorch Project to Build a LSTM Text Classification Model


View Project





Image Classification Model using Transfer Learning in PyTorch


View Project





Build Regression Models in Python for House Price Prediction


View Project





PySpark Project-Build a Data Pipeline using Hive and Cassandra


View Project





PySpark Project-Build a Data Pipeline using Kafka and Redshift


View Project





Deploy an Application to Kubernetes in Google Cloud using GKE


View Project





Learn to Build a Polynomial Regression Model from Scratch


View Project



View all New Projects

Sqoop vs Flume-Comparison of the two Best Data Ingestion Tools

 

Get FREE Access to Data Analytics Example Codes for Data Cleaning, Data Munging, and Data Visualization

What is Sqoop in Hadoop?
Apache Sqoop (SQL-to-Hadoop) is a lifesaver for anyone who is experiencing difficulties in moving data from the data warehouse into the Hadoop environment. Apache Sqoop is an effective hadoop tool used for importing data from RDBMS’s like MySQL, Oracle, etc. into HBase, Hive or HDFS. Sqoop hadoop can also be used for exporting data from HDFS into RDBMS. Apache Sqoop is a command line interpreter i.e. the Sqoop commands are executed one at a time by the interpreter.
Need for Apache Sqoop
With increasing number of business organizations adopting Hadoop to analyse huge amounts of structured or unstructured data, there is a need for them to transfer petabytes or exabytes of data between their existing relational databases, data sources, data warehouses and the Hadoop environment. Accessing huge amounts of unstructured data directly from MapReduce applications running on large Hadoop clusters or loading it from production systems is a complex task because data transfer using scripts is often not effective and time consuming.
How Apache Sqoop works?
Sqoop is an effective hadoop tool for non-programmers which functions by looking at the databases that need to be imported and choosing a relevant import function for the source data. Once the input is recognized by Sqoop hadoop, the metadata for the table is read and a class definition is created for the input requirements. Hadoop Sqoop can be forced to function selectively by just getting the columns needed before input instead of importing the entire input and looking for the data in it. This saves considerable amount of time. In reality, the import from the database to HDFS is accomplished by a MapReduce job that is created in the background by Apache Sqoop.

 Explore Categories
Apache Hive Projects
Apache Hbase Projects
Apache Pig Projects
Apache Oozie Projects
Apache Impala Projects
Apache Flume Projects
Apache Sqoop Projects
Spark GraphX Projects
Spark MLlib Projects
Apache Zepellin Projects
Apache Kafka Projects
Neo4j Projects
Redis Projects
Microsoft Azure Projects
Google Cloud Projects GCP


Features of Apache Sqoop
Apache Sqoop supports bulk import i.e. it can import the complete database or individual tables into HDFS. The files will be stored in the HDFS file system and the data in built-in directories.
Sqoop parallelizes data transfer for optimal system utilization and fast performance.
Apache Sqoop provides direct input i.e. it can map relational databases and import directly into HBase and Hive.
Sqoop makes data analysis efficient.
Sqoop helps in mitigating the excessive loads to external systems.
Sqoop provides data interaction programmatically by generating Java classes.
Companies Using Apache Sqoop
The Apollo Group education company uses Sqoop to extract data from external databases and inject results of Hadoop jobs back into the RDBMS’s.
Coupons.com uses Sqoop tool for data transfer between its IBM Netezza data warehouse and the hadoop environment.
What is Flume in Hadoop?
Apache Flume is service designed for streaming logs into Hadoop environment. Flume is a distributed and reliable service for collecting and aggregating huge amounts of log data. With a simple and easy to use architecture based on streaming data flows, it also has tunable reliability mechanisms and several recovery and failover mechanisms.
Need for Flume
Logs are usually a source of stress and argument in most of the big data companies. Logs are one of the most painful resources to manage for the operations team as they take up huge amount of space. Logs are rarely present at places on the disk where someone in the company can make effective use of them or hadoop developers can access them. Many big data companies wind up building tools and processes to collect logs from application servers, transfer them to some repository so that they can control the lifecycle without consuming unnecessary disk space.
This frustrates developers as the logs are often not present at the location where they can view them easily, they have limited number of tools available for processing logs and have confined capabilities in intelligently managing the lifecycle. Apache Flume is designed to address the difficulties of both operations group and developers by providing them an easy to use tool that can push logs from bunch of applications servers to various repositories via a highly configurable agent.

Get More Practice, More Big Data and Analytics Projects, and More guidance.Fast-Track Your Career Transition with ProjectPro

How Apache Flume works?
Flume has a simple event driven pipeline architecture with 3 important roles-Source, Channel and Sink.
Source defines where the data is coming from, for instance a message queue or a file.
Sinks defined the destination of the data pipelined from various sources.
Channels are pipes which establish connect between sources and sinks.
Apache flume works on two important concepts-
The master acts like a reliable configuration service which is used by nodes for retrieving their configuration.
If the configuration for a particular node changes on the master then it will dynamically be updated by the master.
Node is generally an event pipe in Hadoop Flume which reads from the source and writes to the Sink. The characteristics and role of a flume node is determine by the behaviour of source and sinks. Apache Flume is built with several source and sink options but if none of them fits in your requirements then developers can write their own. A flume node can also be configured with the help of a sink decorator which can interpret the event and transforms it as it passes through. With all these basic primitives, developers can create different topologies to collect data on any application server and direct it to any log repository.
Features of Apache Flume
Flume is a flexible tool as it allows to scale in environments with as low as five machines to as high as several thousands of machines.
Apache Flume provides high throughput and low latency.
Apache Flume has a declarative configuration but provides ease of extensibility.
Flume in Hadoop is fault tolerant, linearly scalable and stream oriented.
Companies Using Apache Flume
Goibibo uses Hadoop flume to transfer logs from the production systems into HDFS.
Mozilla uses flume Hadoop for the BuildBot project along with Elastic Search.
Capillary technologies uses Flume for aggregating logs from 25 machines in production.

 Get confident to build end-to-end projects. 
Access to a curated library of 230+ end-to-end industry projects with solution code, videos and tech support.
 Request a demo 

Difference between Sqoop and Flume

Apache Sqoop and Apache Flume work with various kinds of data sources. Flume functions well in streaming data sources which are generated continuously in hadoop environment such as log files from multiple servers whereas Apache Sqoop is designed to work well with any kind of relational database system that has JDBC connectivity. Sqoop can also import data from NoSQL databases like MongoDB or Cassandra and also allows direct data transfer or Hive or HDFS. For transferring data to Hive using Apache Sqoop tool, a table has to be created for which the schema is taken from the database itself.
In Apache Flume data loading is event driven whereas in Apache Sqoop data load is not driven by events.
Flume is a better choice when moving bulk streaming data from various sources like JMS or Spooling directory whereas Sqoop is an ideal fit if the data is sitting in databases like Teradata, Oracle, MySQL Server, Postgres or any other JDBC compatible database then it is best to use Apache Sqoop.
In Apache Flume, data flows to HDFS through multiple channels whereas in Apache Sqoop HDFS is the destination for importing data.
Apache Flume has agent based architecture i.e. the code written in flume is known as agent which is responsible for fetching data whereas in Apache Sqoop the architecture is based on connectors. The connectors in Sqoop know how to connect with the various data sources and fetch data accordingly.
Lastly, Sqoop and Flume cannot be used achieve the same tasks as they are developed specifically to serve different purposes. Apache Flume agents are designed to fetch streaming data like tweets from Twitter or log file from the web server whereas Sqoop connectors are designed to work only with structured data sources and fetch data from them.
Apache Sqoop is mainly used for parallel data transfers, for data imports as it copies data quickly where Apache Flume is used for collecting and aggregating data because of its distributed, reliable nature and highly available backup routes.

Build an Awesome Job Winning Project Portfolio with Solved End-to-End Big Data Projects

Sqoop vs Flume - Architecture
Apache Sqoop follows a connector-based architecture. This means that Sqoop has plugins that enable connectivity to external data sources. So, Sqoop can be used to bring data in from external sources, non-Hadoop stores into the Hadoop ecosystem. Sqoop is primarily used for parallel data transfer and hence, it is mainly used for cases where quick data transfer is required. Sqoop provides import tools and export tools to import tables from an external source into the Hadoop environment and export directories from the Hadoop environment into an external non-Hadoop database table, respectively. In Sqoop, the import or export processes terminate once the data transfer is complete.
Apache Flume follows an agent-based architecture, and is completely event-driven. An agent is an independent process in Flume, which receives data from clients or other agents. The agent then forwards the data to its next destination. There may be more than one agent in Flume. A Flume agent has three parts: 

Source: the component of the agent which receives the data.


Channel: receives the event from the source and holds them until they are consumed by the sink. 


Sink: stores the data into centralized stores on the Hadoop ecosystem such as HBase and HDFS. it is responsible for consuming the events from the channel and then delivering it to the destination.

Since Flume is purely event-driven, it is primarily used to pull data when companies want to use the data on logs and social media to find patterns, root causes or perform sentiment analysis.
Sqoop vs Flume - Use cases
Apache Sqoop is an open-source tool designed to efficiently transfer bulk data between Hadoop and various structured datastores. Sqoop allows bidirectional data transfer between It is used to import data from external data sources into the Hadoop ecosystem. The Hadoop ecosystem includes HDFS or other systems such as Hive and HBase. Sqoop may also be used to export data from the Hadoop environment into external data stores. External stores may refer to relational databases and enterprise data warehouses. Sqoop can be coupled with relational databases such as Oracle, MySQL, Netezza, Teradata, Postgres, and HSQLDB. 
Apache Flume is a reliable and distributed open-source tool that is used for efficient collection, aggregation, and transfer of large amounts of log data. It provides a flexible and straightforward way of handling streaming data flows. This data can be used for further analytical analysis. Apache Flume provides a robust and fault-tolerant system with several recovery mechanisms.
Loading large amounts of data into Hadoop from production systems or using map-reduce applications running on large clusters to access the data can be very time-consuming since data transfer using scripts is inefficient. 
HDFS is a good tool for storing large volumes of data, and it also provides a scalable environment for processing both structured and unstructured data. However, it is not very suitable for queries requiring low latency or interactive queries. 
Apache Sqoop allows data transfer between the Hadoop ecosystem and external structured data sources for fast performance and with optimal system resource utilization. Sqoop copies data quickly from external data sources into Hadoop, enabling more efficient data analysis and mitigating the load on external systems. Sqoop reads the tables of the databases row-by-row onto Hadoop. The output generated is a number of files that contain copies of the table to be imported. Since the import process is performed in parallel, multiple files are generated as output. The files may be in the form of delimited text files, binary Avro, or Sequence files which contain record data in a serialized format.
Apache Flume is very effective in cases that involve real-time event data processing. Flume is ideal for situations where data of high volume and high velocity has to be collected from a variety of sources and stored onto the Hadoop system.
Some use cases of Sqoop are:

Data can be imported from relational databases onto Hadoop. Sqoop supports loading the entire database, incremental loading of the database, and loading only some tables. The specific rows and columns to be imported can also be specified. Any delimiters, escape characters to be used in the file-based representation of the data, along with the file format to be used, can be specified. The import process takes the database table as the input. 

After the data that has been imported is manipulated, the data can be exported back onto the relational database. The export process will read data from the files on Hadoop in parallel, parse the data into records, and then insert the records as new rows into the target database tables, which can be used by external users or applications.

Sqoop provides commands which allow inspection of the database from where the data has to be imported or exported. There are commands to list the available database schemas and the various tables within a schema.


During the import process, a Java class is generated, which can encapsulate a row of the imported table. The source code of this Java class is provided and can be used for any further MapReduce processing of the data. It allows serialization and deserialization of data to and from the Sequence File format. It can also be used to parse the delimited-text form of records.


 Most Watched Projects 




Build an AWS ETL Data Pipeline in Python on YouTube Data


View Project





Hands-On Real Time PySpark Project for Beginners


View Project





SQL Project for Data Analysis using Oracle Database-Part 1


View Project





Loan Eligibility Prediction using Gradient Boosting Classifier


View Project





PySpark Big Data Project to Learn RDD Operations


View Project



View all Most Watched Projects

According to HG Insights, over 10,000 companies including Nike, Bank of America, JP Morgan Chase, M&T Bank and Comcast use Apache Sqoop for bidirectional transfer of data between Hadoop and RDBMS.
Some real-world applications of Flume include:

Flume can be used to import and analyze large amounts of data that are generated in real-time by various social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook, and also data generated from e-commerce sites such as Amazon and Flipkart.


Flume provides support for:

Fan-out flows: Here, the data can be exported to multiple destinations. There are two modes of fan-out flows - replicating and multiplexing. In the case of replicating, the data is exported to all channels. In multiplexing, the data is exported to only certain channels based on information in the event header. 


Fan-in flows refer to the import of data from multiple sources through a single channel.


Multi-hop flows: The Flume data may travel through multiple agents before it reaches the final destination. 


Contextual routing: The route of data from source to destination can be specified.



Apache Flume is a good tool to use while performing sentiment analysis to inject the required data for analysis into the Hadoop environment.


Flume finds applications in fraud detection. E.g., Credit card fraud detection.


Flume allows the collection of data in real-time and in batch mode from a wide range of sources.


Data can be collected from multiple sources and transferred to multiple destinations using Flume.


Flume is the tool used for log data transfer to HDFS. In cases where there are multiple web applications servers that are generating logs, and the logs have to be moved quickly onto HDFS,Flume can be used to ingest all the logs rapidly into Hadoop. Flume can be used for data masking and data filtering.


In IoT applications, Flume can help in the aggregation of data generated by machines and sensors.


Flume is used to capture streaming data on Hadoop.

Flume vs Sqoop - Data flow
Apache Sqoop works with various relational database management systems (RDBMS) that have basic JDBC (Java Database Connectivity). Sqoop does not support importing of data from non-RDBMS such as MongoDB and Cassandra. Sqoop is not event-driven. It allows bidirectional transfer of data between Hadoop and RDBMS.This data transfer to and from Hadoop and the RDBMS is carried out in a parallelized fashion. Hence, the output while data is imported from external databases is usually in multiple files.
Flume works well with data sources where data is generated continuously. It is meant for transferring data from streaming data sources such as logs, jms, directory and crash reports into Hadoop. The distributed nature of Flume makes it a good choice for collection and aggregation of data from multiple sources. Flume is completely event-driven.

Related Posts
How much Java is required to learn Hadoop? 
Top 100 Hadoop Interview Questions and Answers
Difference between Hive and Pig - The Two Key components of Hadoop Ecosystem 
Make a career change from Mainframe to Hadoop - Learn Why

 

PREVIOUS


NEXT











Start Your First Project
Learn By Doing



Select Project
 PySpark ETL Project-Build a Data Pipeline using S3 and MySQL 
 PySpark Big Data Project to Learn RDD Operations 
 Getting Started with Azure Purview for Data Governance 
 NLP Project for Multi Class Text Classification using BERT Model 
 Learn to Build a Polynomial Regression Model from Scratch 
 Build Multi Class Text Classification Models with RNN and LSTM 
 Build a Text Classification Model with Attention Mechanism NLP 
 Learn to Build a Neural network from Scratch using NumPy 
 Learn to Build Generative Models Using PyTorch Autoencoders 
 Demand prediction of driver availability using multistep time series analysis 

Start Project




 What Users are saying.. 

 







Juan Solis						
Senior Data Scientist at en DUS Software Engineering
 








						I signed up on this platform with the intention of getting real industry projects which no other learning platform provides. Every single project is very well designed and is indeed a real industry...						Read More





Relevant Projects


Machine Learning Projects
Data Science Projects
Python Projects for Data Science
Data Science Projects in R
Machine Learning Projects for Beginners
Deep Learning Projects
Neural Network Projects
Tensorflow Projects
NLP Projects
Kaggle Projects
IoT Projects
Big Data Projects
Hadoop Real-Time Projects Examples
Spark Projects
Data Analytics Projects for Students




You might also like

Data Scientist Salary
How to Become a Data Scientist
Data Analyst vs Data Scientist
Data Scientist Resume
Data Science Projects for Beginners
Machine Learning Engineer
Machine Learning Projects for Beginners
Datasets
Pandas Dataframe
Machine Learning Algorithms
Regression Analysis
MNIST Dataset
Data Science Interview Questions
Python Data Science Interview Questions
Spark Interview Questions
Hadoop Interview Questions
Data Analyst Interview Questions
Machine Learning Interview Questions
AWS vs Azure
Hadoop Architecture
Spark Architecture






Tutorials

Data Science Tutorial


							Snowflake Data Warehouse Tutorial for Beginners with Examples						


							Jupyter Notebook Tutorial - A Complete Beginners Guide						


							Best Python NumPy Tutorial for Beginners						


							Tableau Tutorial for Beginners -Step by Step Guide						


							MLOps Python Tutorial for Beginners -Get Started with MLOps						


							Alteryx Tutorial for Beginners to Master Alteryx in 2021						


							Free Microsoft Power BI Tutorial for Beginners with Examples						


							Theano Deep Learning Tutorial for Beginners						


							Computer Vision Tutorial for Beginners | Learn Computer Vision						


							Python Pandas Tutorial for Beginners - The A-Z Guide						


							NumPy Python Tutorial for Beginners						


							Hadoop Online Tutorial – Hadoop HDFS Commands Guide						


							MapReduce Tutorial–Learn to implement Hadoop WordCount Example						


							Hadoop Hive Tutorial-Usage of Hive Commands in HQL						


							Hive Tutorial-Getting Started with Hive Installation on Ubuntu						


							Learn Java for Hadoop Tutorial: Inheritance and Interfaces						


							Learn Java for Hadoop Tutorial: Classes and Objects						


							Learn Java for Hadoop Tutorial: Arrays						


							Apache Spark Tutorial - Run your First Spark Program						


							Best PySpark Tutorial for Beginners-Learn Spark with Python 						


							R Tutorial- Learn Data Visualization with R using GGVIS 						


							Neural Network Training Tutorial						


							Python List Tutorial						


							MatPlotLib Tutorial						


							Decision Tree Tutorial						


							Neural Network Tutorial						


							Performance Metrics for Machine Learning Algorithms						


							R Tutorial: Data.Table						


							SciPy Tutorial						


							Step-by-Step Apache Spark Installation Tutorial						


							Introduction to Apache Spark Tutorial						


							R Tutorial: Importing Data from Web						


							R Tutorial: Importing Data from Relational Database						


							R Tutorial: Importing Data from Excel						


							Introduction to Machine Learning Tutorial						


							Machine Learning Tutorial: Linear Regression						


							Machine Learning Tutorial: Logistic Regression						


							Support Vector Machine Tutorial (SVM)						


							K-Means Clustering Tutorial						


							dplyr Manipulation Verbs						


							Introduction to dplyr package						


							Importing Data from Flat Files in R						


							Principal Component Analysis Tutorial						


							Pandas Tutorial Part-3						


							Pandas Tutorial Part-2						


							Pandas Tutorial Part-1						


							Tutorial- Hadoop Multinode Cluster Setup on Ubuntu						


							Data Visualizations Tools in R						


							R Statistical and Language tutorial						


							Introduction to Data Science with R						


							Apache Pig Tutorial: User Defined Function Example						


							Apache Pig Tutorial Example: Web Log Server Analytics						


							Impala Case Study: Web Traffic						


							Impala Case Study: Flight Data Analysis						


							Hadoop  Impala Tutorial						


							Apache Hive Tutorial: Tables						


							Flume Hadoop Tutorial: Twitter Data Extraction						


							Flume Hadoop Tutorial: Website Log Aggregation						


							Hadoop Sqoop Tutorial: Example Data Export						


							Hadoop Sqoop Tutorial: Example of Data Aggregation						


							Apache Zookepeer Tutorial: Example of Watch Notification						


							Apache Zookepeer Tutorial: Centralized Configuration Management						


							Hadoop Zookeeper Tutorial for Beginners						


							Hadoop Sqoop Tutorial						


							Hadoop PIG Tutorial						


							Hadoop Oozie Tutorial						


							Hadoop NoSQL Database Tutorial						


							Hadoop Hive Tutorial						


							Hadoop HDFS Tutorial						


							Hadoop hBase Tutorial						


							Hadoop Flume Tutorial						


							Hadoop 2.0 YARN Tutorial						


							Hadoop MapReduce Tutorial						


							Big Data Hadoop Tutorial for Beginners- Hadoop Installation						




Top 15 Latest Recipes



							How to create pipeline in sklearn						


							How to perform linear regression using sklearn						


							How to perform xgboost algorithm with sklearn						


							How to perform logistic regression in sklearn						


							How to download dataset from openml repo sklearn						


							What is sklearn library and how to install it						


							How to use Pip in Python						


							How to run a python file						


							Functions in Python						


							Explain the features of Amazon Relational Database System						


							Introduction to Amazon Relational Database System and its use cases						


							Explain the features of Amazon Detective						


							Introduction to Amazon Detective and its use cases						


							Explain the features of Amazon Athena						


							Introduction to Amazon Athena and its use cases						












Get Free demo of AWS project

×





















Get Demo Now
CONTINUE









Download the Interview Guide

×





















Go, Get That Dream Job!
CONTINUE




 









Trending Project Categories

Machine Learning Projects
Data Science Projects
Deep Learning Projects
Big Data Projects
Apache Hadoop Projects
Apache Spark Projects
Show more

NLP Projects
IoT Projects
Neural Network Projects
Tensorflow Projects
PySpark Projects
Spark Streaming Projects
Python Projects for Data Science
Microsoft Azure Projects
GCP Projects
AWS Projects
Show less




Trending Projects

Walmart Sales Forecasting Data Science Project
BigMart Sales Prediction ML Project
Music Recommender System Project
Credit Card Fraud Detection Using Machine Learning
Resume Parser Python Project for Data Science
Time Series Forecasting Projects
Show more

Twitter Sentiment Analysis Project
Credit Score Prediction Machine Learning
Retail Price Optimization Algorithm Machine Learning
Store Item Demand Forecasting Deep Learning Project
Human Activity Recognition ML Project
Visualize Website Clickstream Data
Handwritten Digit Recognition Code Project
Anomaly Detection Projects
PySpark Data Pipeline Project
Show less




Trending Blogs

Machine Learning Projects for Beginners with Source Code
Data Science Projects for Beginners with Source Code
Big Data Projects for Beginners with Source Code
IoT Projects for Beginners with Source Code
Data Analyst vs Data Scientist
Data Science Interview Questions and Answers
Show more

Hadoop Interview Questions and Answers
Spark Interview Questions and Answers
AWS vs Azure
Types of Analytics
Hadoop Architecture
Spark Architecture
Machine Learning Algorithms
Data Partitioning in Spark
Datasets for Machine Learning
Show less




Trending Recipes 

Search for a Value in Pandas DataFrame
Pandas Create New Column based on Multiple Condition
LSTM vs GRU
Plot ROC Curve in Python
Python Upload File to Google Drive
Optimize Logistic Regression Hyper Parameters
Show more

Drop Out Highly Correlated Features in Python
How to Split Data and Time in Python
Pandas Replace Multiple Values
Convert Categorical Variable to Numeric Pandas
Classification Report Python
RandomizedSearchCV
Grid Search Decision Tree
Catboost Hyperparameter Tuning
Pandas Normalize Column
Show less




Trending Tutorials

PCA in Machine Learning Tutorial
PySpark Tutorial
Hive Commands Tutorial
MapReduce in Hadoop Tutorial
Apache Hive Tutorial -Tables
Linear Regression Tutorial
Show more

Apache Spark Tutorial
Evaluate Performance Metrics for Machine Learning Models
K-Means Clustering Tutorial
Sqoop Tutorial
R Import Data From Website
Install Spark on Linux
Data.Table Packages in R
Apache ZooKeeper Hadoop Tutorial
Hadoop Tutorial
Show less









ProjectPro

© 2022 Iconiq Inc.
About us
Contact us
Privacy policy
User policy
Write for ProjectPro



















