







The 9 components that make up a Conversational (Chat)Bot - Blog | Miracle














































 










Home
About Us
Categories

Application Development and Delivery
Big Data and Analytics
Cloud Applications
Internet of Things
Hybrid Integration
DevOps and Automation












Search
 






 





The 9 components that make up a Conversational (Chat)Bot
By Chanakya LokamIn Application Development and Delivery, Cognitive ComputingSeptember 5, 20185 Min read



 







Level Set – What is a Chatbot?
A chatbot is a conversational interface that understands natural language – which means that it is an AI-powered application that responds to users via messaging apps(like Slack and Skype) by understanding Natural Language.
If we run an X-Ray on a Chatbot..
So, we now know what a chatbot is but want to dive deeper and see what it is made up of. What components does it need to operate intelligently and give an outstanding digital experience to your users? Let us divide the components within a Chatbot as Essential Components and Optional Components and then discuss each of their functionalities.
Before we start, check out the video below!

Essential Components
Bot Middleware
The Bot Middleware is the heart of the bot’s implementation that can be implemented and deployed similar to the backend(server) component of a web (or) mobile application. It acts as the central controller that handles the following tasks,

Receive messages from voice and messaging channels
Check the context of the message in the overall conversational dialog
Interact with the NLP Engine to extract Intents and Entities from user’s message
Integrate with Backend Systems of Record to retrieve user-related information
Log conversations to an analytical store for future analysis

Channel Connector
The channel connectors bring together the bot’s backend with the user interfaces which in this case are messaging channels like Facebook Messenger, Skype for Business, Slack and others. The connectors provide the channel supported method of integration along with mapping capabilities that allow a standard generic message format to be used by your middleware while still supporting multiple channels.
Facebook Rich Text Message -> Channel Connector -> Generic Bot Message
Generic Bot Message -> Channel Connector -> Facebook Rich Text Message
NLP Engine
This is where the AI starts coming in, the Natural Language Processor helps to extract user’s intent and any possible entities from their message. This helps the bot’s decision tree to identify what action needs to be taken in the conversation.
For example, I would like to book a ticket from Detroit to Boston on June 19th
The NLP understands : {From : Detroit, To : Boston, Date : 6/19/18}
Context Store
Every conversation that has multi-turn dialogs will need context. This is what keeps the conversation going in messaging channels which are asynchronous in nature, unlike a phone call. The bot checks its context store to identify where a user is within a conversation’s dialog and hence continue from that point onwards. This functionality allows bots to ask follow up questions and continue conversations over hours apart.
Enterprise Backend(SoR)
Technically this is not needed for a bot to operate, but for a bot to be successful we feel that it is absolutely critical. Bots feel shallow and generic when they lack the connectivity to the enterprise. A travel bot that understands who you are and what your preferences are is so much better than one that just understands English.
Connectivity to ERPs, CRMs and more allow end users to experience the business through the power of messaging!
Change is inevitable, Growth is OPTIONAL - John C Maxwell
Optional Components
The following components are optional, but help to add immense value to the experience your bot provides.
Cognitive Services
While using an NLP itself is a cognitive service, there are always other things that you can do to enhance the end user’s experience. Here are a few,

Image Recognition – Use images to search for similar products, process insurance claims, and more right through your chatbot
Sentiment and Tone Analysis – Analyze your user’s messages to understand them better, respond in a personalized way and ensure that they stay happy
Language Translation – Convert your chatbot to a global hero in a few clicks by adding a language translation service on top of your NLP layer

Bot Insights
Just as performance insights is important for applications, analyzing your bot’s performance and constantly improving it is just as important. Through conversational logging, you can apply a number of actions such as,

Analyze user adoption and bot performance
Visualize the abandonment rate and critical errors the bots are making
Understand new areas for training the bot to respond to user’s queries

Agent Escalation
Bots cannot answer every question, that is not what they are meant to do. They are meant to answer the most frequently asked questions and handle those for the majority of users. So how do you handle those one-off requests that need a human’s touch?
Bots can escalate conversations to agents so that your users can continue in their messaging channel and speak with an agent, either on request (or) through a trigger mechanism such as angry tone. The agent can visualize the previous conversation with the bot and continue on from there.
Identity and Authentication
The final piece of the puzzle is what every enterprise needs and every developer wants to skip 🙂 Bots are just like applications and in critical industries like Healthcare and Banking they need to be able to authenticate users and validate their identities.
Multiple mechanisms can be implemented to achieve this including standard login, oAuth tokens, and Multi-Factor Authentication with mechanisms like SMS One Time Passwords and Image Recognition.
Want to know more about how to build bots and what you need to get started? Reach out to us at innovation@miraclesoft.com today!


   


About the author



 

Chanakya Lokam

Bot Developer, Tech Enthusiast, Speaker, and Innovator - Chanakya Lokam heads a team of digital rebels who work on Next Gen technologies. He is currently working as Director for the Innovation Labs at Miracle.


View all posts 



1 comment


 Cancel replyCommentName * 
Email * 
Website
 

 





 Paul Switzer says: 

February 6, 2020 at 6:02 PM 


Great assessment thank you for laying it out this way. 

Reply 





Read more




October 6, 2021
The Amazing Announcements from UiPath Forward IV(2021)
By Chanakya LokamIn Application Development and DeliveryOctober 6, 20216 Min read

06October




For the third year running, Gartner has identified RPA(Robotic Process Automation) as one of the fastest growing technologies in the industry. And for the third year running, UiPath has been named by industry experts and analysts as the leading Intelligent Automation platform for enterprises. IDC...

 

May 23, 2022
Top 10 API Testing Tools Enterprises Can Use to Modernize Their Business
By Mounika KolakaIn Quality Assurance and EngineeringMay 23, 20225 Min read

23May




In this blog, we are going to briefly cover API testing tools and its importance. Today most enterprises are facing challenges in building scalable and flexible applications to advance their business. A well-built API practice enables you to use multiple interfaces to deliver the best services for...

 

May 20, 2022
Building Scalable Applications with Azure Front Door and CDN
By Manasa Brahmateja SutapalliIn Application Development and Delivery, Cloud ApplicationsMay 20, 20223 Min read

20May




Scalability is crucial for any application development especially if you want to handle up and downs in your app traffic and manage requests efficiently without affecting the user experience. Scalable apps can be easily customized and updated to meet new demands. They are also easier to maintain...

 

May 18, 2022
Need of Live Chat on e-Commerce Website
By agonaIn Application Development and Delivery, Cognitive ComputingMay 18, 20225 Min read

18May




Imagine you’re trying to purchase a pair of shoes at your favorite shop around the corner, searching for your size. However, you were unable to find it. You would be first wondering whether they are out of stock or whether they are available in half-sizes. You would try getting some help from...

 

May 16, 2022
P2P Connections with WebRTC
By Ramachandra Reddy SattiIn Application Development and Delivery, Mobile ApplicationsMay 16, 20223 Min read

16May




Introduction With the advancement of the internet, modern-day web browsers are becoming more powerful every day with the introduction of native APIs like WebGL and WebRTC. In earlier days when we wanted to establish a connection between two web browsers, we needed a server in between transferring...









 
By Chanakya Lokam
September 5, 2018





1 comment 







Exploring Cognitive Quality Assurance




To Top




The era of Image Recognition







 
© 2022 Miracle Software Systems, Inc.















Home
About Us
Categories

Application Development and Delivery
Big Data and Analytics
Cloud Applications
Internet of Things
Hybrid Integration
DevOps and Automation


 


Search

Welcome to Miracle's Blog


Our blog is a great stop for people who are looking for enterprise solutions with technologies and services that we provide. Over the years Miracle has prided itself for our continuous efforts to help our customers adopt the latest technology. This blog is a diary of our stories, knowledge and thoughts on the future of digital organizations. 
For contacting Miracle’s Blog Team for becoming an author, requesting content (or) anything else please feel free to reach out to us at blog@miraclesoft.com.	

	

Contributor Login


Who we are?


Miracle Software Systems, a Global Systems Integrator and Minority Owned Business, has been at the cutting edge of technology for over 24 years. Our teams have helped organizations use technology to improve business efficiency, drive new business models and optimize overall IT. 

	

Read More




Recent Posts


Top 10 API Testing Tools Enterprises Can Use to Modernize Their Business


Building Scalable Applications with Azure Front Door and CDN


Need of Live Chat on e-Commerce Website


P2P Connections with WebRTC


Introduction to Amazon Simple Notification Service

















