




What is streaming data architecture? - Definition from WhatIs.com























































WhatIs.com








Search Thousands of Tech Definitions






			Browse Definitions
		:

A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
#





Login
Register




Techtarget Network
Tech Accelerator
Webinars



RSS







WhatIs.com







Browse Definitions

					Data and data management










									Data analytics and AI

View All



									Algorithms

									Artificial intelligence

									Database management






										Business software

View All



										ERP

										HR management

										Marketing and CX

										Microsoft

										Software applications






										Cloud computing

View All



										Internet applications

										Internet of Things

										Web services






										Computer science

View All



										Electronics

										Internet technologies

										IT standards and organizations

										Microprocessors

										Robotics






										Data analytics and AI

View All



										Algorithms

										Artificial intelligence

										Data and data management

										Database management






										Data centers

View All



										Data backup and disaster recovery

										Data center management

										Linux

										Operating systems

										Storage Admin

										Storage and Data Mgmt

										Virtualization






										IT management

View All



										Certifications

										IT career paths

										IT Operations

										Personal computing

										Project management

										Technical support






										Networking

View All



										High-speed networks

										Network Admin

										Network hardware

										Networking and communications

										Wireless and mobile






										Security

View All



										Authentication and access control

										Compliance, risk and governance

										Network security

										Security Admin

										Threat management






										Software development

View All



										Agile software development

										AppDev

										DevOps

										Programming



Please select a category


										Business software

										Cloud computing

										Computer science

										Data analytics and AI

										Data centers

										IT management

										Networking

										Security

										Software development







Quick Study
Resources





Business strategies
Career resources
Emerging tech
Tech explainers





Follow:












Home
Topics
Data centers
Storage Admin
streaming data architecture 








Definition
streaming data architecture 










Share this item with your network:


























































By


TechTarget Contributor



 
A streaming data architecture is an information technology framework that puts the focus on processing data in motion and treats extract-transform-load (ETL) batch processing as just one more event in a continuous stream of events. This type of architecture has three basic components -- an aggregator that gathers event streams and batch files from a variety of data sources, a broker that makes data available for consumption and an analytics engine that analyzes the data, correlates values and blends streams together.
The system that receives and sends data streams and executes the application and real-time analytics logic is called the stream processor. Because a streaming data architecture supports the concept of event sourcing, it reduces the need for developers to create and maintain shared databases. Instead, all changes to an application’s state are stored as a sequence of event-driven processing (ESP) triggers that can be reconstructed or queried when necessary. Upon receiving an event, the stream processor reacts in real- or near real-time and triggers an action, such as remembering the event for future reference.
The growing popularity of streaming data architectures reflects a shift in the development of services and products from a monolithic architecture to a decentralized one built with microservices. This type of architecture is usually more flexible and scalable than a classic database-centric application architecture because it co-locates data processing with storage to lower application response times (latency) and improve throughput. Another advantage of using a streaming data architecture is that it factors the time an event occurs into account, which makes it easier for an application’s state and processing to be partitioned and distributed across many instances.
Streaming data architectures enable developers to develop applications that use both bound and unbound data in new ways. For example, Alibaba’s search infrastructure team uses a streaming data architecture powered by Apache Flink to update product detail and inventory information in real-time. Netflix also uses Flink to support its recommendation engines and ING, the global bank based in The Netherlands, uses the architecture to prevent identity theft and provide better fraud protection. Other platforms that can accommodate both stream and batch processing include Apache Spark, Apache Storm, Google Cloud Dataflow and AWS Kinesis.


		
		
			
			
				
					This was last updated in October 2018





			Continue Reading About streaming data architecture
		

Stream Processing Myths Debunked


Information architecture applied to big data streaming, AI


Streaming data analytics puts real-time pressure on project teams


Users look to real-time streaming to speed up big data analytics









				Related Terms


customer intelligence (CI)

Customer intelligence (CI) is the process of collecting and analyzing detailed customer data from internal and external sources ... 
							See complete definition



performance and accountability reporting (PAR)

Performance and accountability reporting (PAR) is the process of compiling and documenting factors that quantify an ... 
							See complete definition



XML Schema Definition (XSD)

XML Schema Definition or XSD is a recommendation by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) to describe and validate the structure ... 
							See complete definition











Word of the Day
mobile computing
Mobile computing refers to the set of IT technologies, products, services and operational strategies and procedures that enable end users to access computation, information and related resources and capabilities while mobile.







20 Newest and Updated Terms

customer intelligence (CI)
extrapolation and interpolation
binary
protocol data unit (PDU)
mobile computing
What is desktop management and how does it work?
e-business (electronic business)
business resilience
volt-ampere (VA)
litigation hold (legal hold, preservation order or hold order)
business impact analysis (BIA)
instruction set
instance
real-time business intelligence (RTBI)
AMD (Advanced Micro Devices)
moonshot
business continuity plan (BCP)
multiprogramming
graphic equalizer
GNU/Linux

















Latest TechTarget resources



							Networking





							Security





							CIO





							HR Software





							Customer Experience











SearchNetworking




protocol data unit (PDU)
In networking, a protocol data unit is the basic unit of exchange between entities that communicate using a specified networking ...



software-defined networking (SDN)
Software-defined networking (SDN) is an architecture that abstracts different, distinguishable layers of a network to make ...



What is 6G? Overview of 6G networks & technology
6G (sixth-generation wireless) is the successor to 5G cellular technology. 6G networks will be able to use higher frequencies ...






SearchSecurity




man in the browser (MitB)
Man in the browser (MitB) is a security attack where the perpetrator installs a Trojan horse on the victim's computer that is ...



Patch Tuesday
Patch Tuesday is the unofficial name of Microsoft's monthly scheduled release of security fixes for the Windows operating system ...



parameter tampering
Parameter tampering is a type of web-based cyber attack in which certain parameters in a URL are changed without a user's ...






SearchCIO




e-business (electronic business)
E-business (electronic business) is the conduct of business processes on the internet.



business resilience
Business resilience is the ability an organization has to quickly adapt to disruptions while maintaining continuous business ...



chief procurement officer (CPO)
The chief procurement officer, or CPO, leads an organization's procurement department and oversees the acquisitions of goods and ...






SearchHRSoftware




performance and accountability reporting (PAR)
Performance and accountability reporting (PAR) is the process of compiling and documenting factors that quantify an ...



chief human resources officer (CHRO)
Chief human resources officer (CHRO) is a top-level management executive in charge of an organization's employees.



talent management
Talent management is a process used by companies to optimize how they recruit, train and retain employees.






SearchCustomerExperience




customer intelligence (CI)
Customer intelligence (CI) is the process of collecting and analyzing detailed customer data from internal and external sources ...



clickstream data (clickstream analytics)
Clickstream data and clickstream analytics are the processes involved in collecting, analyzing and reporting aggregate data about...



neuromarketing
Neuromarketing is the study of how people's brains respond to advertising and other brand-related messages by scientifically ...








Browse by Topic
Browse Resources


About Us
Editorial Ethics Policy
Contact Us
Advertisers
Business Partners
Events
Media Kit
Corporate Site
Reprints

All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 1999 - 2022, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell My Personal Info











Close





