



What is message queuing? - CloudAMQP































CloudAMQP







Tour


Pricing


Documentation


Support


Blog




Login



Get Started
Start









What is message queuing?


Last updated:

2019-09-25









Message queuing allows applications to communicate by
sending messages to each other.
The message queue provides temporary message storage when the
destination program is busy or not connected.




This blog article explains message queuing, what it is, how to use it,
and the benefits of using a message queue in an architecture.


A

queue

is a line of things waiting to be handled, starting at the beginning of
the line and processing it in sequential order.
A message queue is a queue of messages sent between applications.
It includes a sequence of work objects that are waiting to be processed.


A
message
is the data transported between the sender and
the receiver application; it's essentially a
byte array with some headers at the top. An example of a message could be
something that tells one system to start processing
a task, it could contain information about a finished task or just be a
plain message.







The basic architecture of a
message queue
is simple; there are client applications called producers that create messages
and deliver them to the message queue. Another application, called a consumer,
connects to the queue
and gets the messages to be processed. Messages placed onto the queue are
stored until the consumer retrieves them.


Message queues


A message queue provides an
asynchronous communications protocol,
which is a system that puts a message onto a message queue and does not
require an immediate response to continuing processing.
Email is probably the best example of asynchronous communication. When an
email is sent, the sender continues to process other things without needing
an immediate response from the receiver. This way of handling messages
decouples the producer from the consumer so that they do not need to interact
with the message queue at the same time.


Decoupling and Scalability


Decoupling describes how much one piece of a system relies on another piece of
the system. Decoupling is the process of separating functions so that they
are more self-contained.


A decoupled system is achieved when two or more systems are able to
communicate without being connected. The systems can remain completely
autonomous and unaware of other functions. Decoupling is often a sign of
a computer system that is well structured because it is easier to maintain,


If one process in a decoupled system fails to process messages from the queue,
other messages can still be added to the queue and be processed
when the system has recovered. You can also use a message queue to delay
processing - for example, a producer posts messages to a queue.
At the appointed time, the consumers start and process the messages
in the queue. A queued message can be stored-and-forwarded, and the message
can be redelivered until it is processed.





Instead of building one large application, it is beneficial to
decouple different parts of your application and communicate between them
asynchronously using message queues.
This allows for different parts of the application to evolve independently,
be written in different languages, and/or be maintained by
separated development teams.


A message queue will keep the processes in your application separate
and independent of each other. The first process will never need to
invoke another process, post notifications to another process,
or follow the process flow of the other processes. It can just
put the message in the queue and then continue processing.
The other processes can also handle their work independently,
taking the messages from the queue when they are able to process them.
This way of handling messages creates a system that is easy to maintain and
scale.


Message queuing - a simple use case


Imagine that you have a web service that receives many requests every second,
where no request can get lost, and all requests need to be processed by a
function that has a high throughput. In other words, the web service always
has to be highly available and ready to receive a new request instead of
being locked by the processing of previously received requests.


In this case, placing a queue between the web service and the processing
service is ideal. The web service can put the "start processing" message on a
queue and the other process can take and handle messages in order. The two
processes are decoupled from each other and do not need to wait. If you have
a lot of requests coming in a short amount of time, the processing system
will be able to process them all. The queue will persist with the requests
even if their number grows.


Then imagine that the business and workload are growing and the system needs
to be scaled up. All that needs to be done is to add more consumers to work
off the queues faster.


RabbitMQ


If you do start to consider a queue-based solution, CloudAMQP offers to host
the message queue with
RabbitMQ.
RabbitMQ is open source message-oriented middleware that implements the
Advanced Message Queuing Protocol (AMQP).
AMQP has features like queuing, routing, reliability, and security.
Read more about CloudAMQP
here.


Questions and feedback


Hope this article helped you understand message queuing.


Please email us at
support@cloudamqp.com
if you have any suggestions, questions or feedback.



Enjoy this article? Don't forget to share it with others. 😉

































Lovisa Johansson


Developer









Free Ebook


"The Optimal

RabbitMQ Guide"






Download
your copy





Tweets by CloudAMQP













CloudAMQP - industry leading RabbitMQ as a service

Start your managed cluster today. CloudAMQP is 100% free to try.






Start your FREE plan today!










13,000+
users including these smart companies













































Menu


Home


Tour


Pricing


Documentation


Support


Blog


Customers


About Us




Resources


Changelog


FAQ


Legal and Policies


Security and Compliance


Status





Need help?
Contact Support
Open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Talk to Sales


+1 812 461 6841


Sales inquiries only. Open: 8-5 CST








Brought to you by


www.84codes.com



Our Services






CloudKarafka
– Apache Kafka


ElephantSQL
– PostgreSQL


CloudMQTT
– MQTT








© Copyright 2011-2022 CloudAMQP. RabbitMQ and the RabbitMQ Logo are trademarks of VMware, Inc.









