




What is synchronous/asynchronous API? - Definition from WhatIs.com























































WhatIs.com








Search Thousands of Tech Definitions






			Browse Definitions
		:

A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
#





Login
Register




Techtarget Network
Tech Accelerator
Webinars



RSS







WhatIs.com







Browse Definitions

					Software development










									Topics

View All



									Business software

									Cloud computing

									Computer science

									Data analytics and AI

									Data centers

									IT management

									Networking

									Security



Please select a category



									Topics








Quick Study
Resources





Business strategies
Career resources
Emerging tech
Tech explainers





Follow:












Home
Topics
Topics
Software development
synchronous/asynchronous API 








Definition
synchronous/asynchronous API 










Share this item with your network:


























































By


TechTarget Contributor



 
Synchronous/asynchronous APIs are application programming interfaces that return data for requests either immediately or at a later time, respectively. Synchronous/asynchronous APIs provide a way to make immediate or scheduled requests for resources, data or services when available.
The synchronous and asynchronous nature of an API is a function of the time frame from the request to the return of data. In the case of synchronous APIs, the expectation is that there will be an immediate return of data. The application requests data and waits for it until a value is returned.
In the case of asynchronous APIs, the availability of a resource, service or data store may not be immediate. These APIs may provide a callback to the requester when the requested resource is ready. Asynchronous requests are useful in maintaining functionality in an application rather than tie up application resources waiting on a request.
An API may be synchronous where data or service availability, resources and connectivity are high and low latency is a requirement. An API may be asynchronous where data or service availability and connectivity are low or oversaturated with demand.


		
		
			
			
				
					This was last updated in November 2017





			Continue Reading About synchronous/asynchronous API
		

How can we support both synchronous and asynchronous Web services with J2EE?


Synchronous vs. asynchronous communication: The differences


Dealing with Asynchronous APIs in Server-rendered React  Related Topics:


Communication APIs have some unpredictable traits









				Related Terms


Google Compute Engine

Google Compute Engine (GCE) is an infrastructure as a service (IaaS) offering that allows clients to run workloads on Google's ... 
							See complete definition



instance

In object-oriented programming (OOP), an instance is a specific realization of any object. 
							See complete definition



monolithic architecture

A monolithic architecture is the traditional unified model for the design of a software program. 
							See complete definition











Word of the Day
customer intelligence
Customer intelligence (CI) is the process of collecting and analyzing detailed customer data from internal and external sources to gain insights about customer needs, motivations and behaviors.







20 Newest and Updated Terms

first call resolution (FCR)
multithreading
data binding
organization resilience
4 P's marketing mix
customer intelligence (CI)
binary
extrapolation and interpolation
protocol data unit (PDU)
mobile computing
What is desktop management and how does it work?
e-business (electronic business)
business resilience
business impact analysis (BIA)
litigation hold (legal hold, preservation order or hold order)
volt-ampere (VA)
instruction set
instance
real-time business intelligence (RTBI)
AMD (Advanced Micro Devices)

















Latest TechTarget resources



							Networking





							Security





							CIO





							HR Software





							Customer Experience











SearchNetworking




protocol data unit (PDU)
In networking, a protocol data unit is the basic unit of exchange between entities that communicate using a specified networking ...



software-defined networking (SDN)
Software-defined networking (SDN) is an architecture that abstracts different, distinguishable layers of a network to make ...



What is 6G? Overview of 6G networks & technology
6G (sixth-generation wireless) is the successor to 5G cellular technology. 6G networks will be able to use higher frequencies ...






SearchSecurity




man in the browser (MitB)
Man in the browser (MitB) is a security attack where the perpetrator installs a Trojan horse on the victim's computer that is ...



Patch Tuesday
Patch Tuesday is the unofficial name of Microsoft's monthly scheduled release of security fixes for the Windows operating system ...



parameter tampering
Parameter tampering is a type of web-based cyber attack in which certain parameters in a URL are changed without a user's ...






SearchCIO




e-business (electronic business)
E-business (electronic business) is the conduct of business processes on the internet.



business resilience
Business resilience is the ability an organization has to quickly adapt to disruptions while maintaining continuous business ...



chief procurement officer (CPO)
The chief procurement officer, or CPO, leads an organization's procurement department and oversees the acquisitions of goods and ...






SearchHRSoftware




performance and accountability reporting (PAR)
Performance and accountability reporting (PAR) is the process of compiling and documenting factors that quantify an ...



chief human resources officer (CHRO)
Chief human resources officer (CHRO) is a top-level management executive in charge of an organization's employees.



talent management
Talent management is a process used by companies to optimize how they recruit, train and retain employees.






SearchCustomerExperience




first call resolution (FCR)
First call resolution (FCR) is when customer service agents properly address a customer's needs the first time they call.



customer intelligence (CI)
Customer intelligence (CI) is the process of collecting and analyzing detailed customer data from internal and external sources ...



clickstream data (clickstream analytics)
Clickstream data and clickstream analytics are the processes involved in collecting, analyzing and reporting aggregate data about...








Browse by Topic
Browse Resources


About Us
Editorial Ethics Policy
Contact Us
Advertisers
Business Partners
Events
Media Kit
Corporate Site
Reprints

All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 1999 - 2022, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell My Personal Info











Close





