



What is the relationship between connections and channels in RabbitMQ? - CloudAMQP































CloudAMQP







Tour


Pricing


Documentation


Support


Blog




Login



Get Started
Start









What is the relationship between connections and channels in RabbitMQ?



2019-11-13









In a conversation, parties greet each other, exchange verbal banter, and
eventually continue on their way. A similar form of communication occurs
over low-level TCP connections exposing lightweight channels in RabbitMQ.
This article examines how clients, consumers, and brokers pass information in
RabbitMQ.


RabbitMQ was originally developed to support AMQP 0.9.1 which is the "core"
protocol supported by the RabbitMQ broker. Here are the

channels

used to send messages over

TCP connections.



What is a connection?


A connection (TCP) is a link between the client and the broker, that performs
underlying networking tasks including initial authentication, IP resolution,
and networking.





What is a channel?


Connections can multiplex over a single TCP connection, meaning that
an application can open "lightweight connections" on a single connection.
This "lightweight connection" is called a channel. Each connection can
maintain a set of underlying channels.


Many applications needs to
have multiple connections to the broker, and instead of having
many connections an application can reuse the connection, by instead, create
and delete channels. Keeping many TCP connections open at the same time is
not desired, as they consume system resources. The handshake process for a
connection is also quite complex and
requires at least 7 TCP packets or more if TLS is used.


A channel acts as a virtual connection inside a TCP connection.
A channel reuses a connection, forgoing the need to reauthorize and open a
new TCP stream. Channels allow you to use resources more efficiently (more
about this later in this article).


Every AMQP protocol-related operation occurs over a channel.





A connection is created by opening a physical TCP connection to the target
server. The client resolves the hostname to one or more IP addresses before
sending a handshake. The receiving server then authenticates the client.





To send a message or manage queues, a connection is created with the broker
before establishing a channel through a client. The channel packages the
messages and handles protocol operations. Clients send messages through
the channel’s
basic_publish
method. Queue creation and maintenance also occur here, such as AMQP commands
like
queue.create
and
exchange.create
are all sent over AMQP, on a channel.


Closing a connection closes all associated channels.

Publish a message to the RabbitMQ broker


We will look at a simple example from the Python library
Pika.



As with all clients, you establish a TCP connection.


After that, a logical channel is created for sending data or performing
other operations (like the creation of a queue). You provide authorization
information when instantiating a
BlockingConnection
since the broker verifies this information on a per-connection basis.


A message is routed to the queue, over the channel.


The connection is closed (and so the are all channels in the connection).


connection = pika.BlockingConnection(connection_parameters)
channel = connection.channel()
channel.basic_publish(exchange="my_exchange",
  routing_key="my_route",
  body= bytes("test_message")
)
connection.close()

Configuring the number of channels


We recommend to use the operator limit for connections and
channels.
Use
channel_max
to configure the max amount of allowed channels on a
connection. This variable corresponds to
rabbit.channel_max
in the new config format. Exceeding this limit results in a fatal error.
Use
connections_max
to configure the max amount of allowed connections.


A common question we get is how many channels one should have per RabbitMQ
connection, or how many channels is optimal. It’s hard to give an answer to
that since it always depends on the setup. Ideally, you should establish
one connection per process with a dedicated channel given to each new thread.


Setting
channel_max
to 0 means "unlimited". This could be a dangerous move, since applications
sometimes have channel leaks.


Avoiding connection and channel leaks


Two common user mistakes are channel and connection leaks, when a client
opens millions of connections/channels, causing RabbitMQ to crash due to memory issues.
To help catch these issues early, CloudAMQP provides alarms that can be
enabled.


Often, a channel or connection leak is the result of failing to close either
when finished.




Recommendations for connections and channels


Here follow some recommendations of how to use, and not to use connections
and channels.


Use long-lived connection


Each channel consumes a relatively small amount of memory on the client,
compared to a connection. Too many connections can be a heavy burden on the
RabbitMQ server memory usage. Try to keep long-lived connections and instead
open and close channels more frequently, if required.


We recommend that each process only creates one TCP connection and uses
multiple channels in that connection for different threads.


Separate the connections for publishers and consumers


Use at least one connection for publishing and one for consuming for each
app/service/process.


RabbitMQ can apply back pressure on the TCP connection
when the publisher is sending too many messages for the server to handle. If
you consume on the same TCP connection, the server might not receive the
message acknowledgments from the client, thus affecting the consumer
performance. With a lower consume speed, the server will be overwhelmed.


Don’t share channels between threads


Use one channel per thread in your application, and make sure that you don’t
share channels between threads as most clients don’t make channels
thread-safe.


CloudAMQP allows you to scale your instances to meet demand while providing
mechanisms to troubleshoot leaks. If you have any questions, you can reach out
to us at
support@cloudamqp.com



Enjoy this article? Don't forget to share it with others. 😉

































Lovisa johansson


Developer









Free Ebook


"The Optimal

RabbitMQ Guide"






Download
your copy





Tweets by CloudAMQP













CloudAMQP - industry leading RabbitMQ as a service

Start your managed cluster today. CloudAMQP is 100% free to try.






Start your FREE plan today!










13,000+
users including these smart companies













































Menu


Home


Tour


Pricing


Documentation


Support


Blog


Customers


About Us




Resources


Changelog


FAQ


Legal and Policies


Security and Compliance


Status





Need help?
Contact Support
Open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Talk to Sales


+1 812 461 6841


Sales inquiries only. Open: 8-5 CST








Brought to you by


www.84codes.com



Our Services






CloudKarafka
– Apache Kafka


ElephantSQL
– PostgreSQL


CloudMQTT
– MQTT








© Copyright 2011-2022 CloudAMQP. RabbitMQ and the RabbitMQ Logo are trademarks of VMware, Inc.









