












2020 CRN Big Data 100: 14 Data Integration Tools Companies to Consider














































































Solutions Review Sites

About Us
Application Development
Backup & Recovery
Business Intelligence
BPM
Content Management
CRM
Data Integration
Data Management
Data Storage
Endpoint Security
Enterprise Cloud Strategy
ERP
Identity Management
Marketing Automation
Mobility Management
Network Monitoring
SIEM
Talent Management
Wireless Network


NEW Data Integration Buyer’s Guide – CLICK HERE!
 



Search for:



 






 

 
 



Menu



News
Best Practices
Best Selling Books
Solutions Directory
Software Buyer’s Guide
Solution Vendor Map
Resources
Contact Us
 







2020 CRN Big Data 100: 14 Data Integration Tools Companies to Consider
Posted on April 30, 2020 by Timothy King in Data Integration News 



IT news and analysis outlet CRN recently released its 2020 (and eighth annual) Big Data 100, a ranking of prominent big data technology vendors that solution providers should be aware of. The list is made up of established and emerging big data tools vendors. The list is broken down into five distinct product categories that include business analytics, database systems, data management and data integration software, big data platforms, and data science and machine learning tools.
CRN pre-published a list of The Coolest Data Management and Integration Tool Companies included in the overall list via an interactive slideshow. Though the Big Data 100 is aimed at highlighting software vendors for the purposes of solution provider partnering, Solutions Review is most interesting in highlighting the vendors from that offer unique products and platforms for enterprise organizations. As such, we’ve read through CRN’s complete rankings, available here, to analyze the trending data integration tools companies we think matter most. For an even deeper breakdown of data integration software, tools, vendors and platforms, consult our popular Buyer’s Guide.
 


Actian
Actian offers data integration software in on-prem and cloud editions, DataConnect and DataCloud. DataConnect is a hybrid solution that enables users to design, deploy, and manage integrations without limits on data types or volumes. Actian Cloud is an elastic platform for deploying and managing hybrid, on-prem, or cloud-to-cloud integrations in an on-demand services platform that is powered by Amazon Web Services.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Alluxio
Alluxio enables data orchestration for compute in any cloud. The product unified data silos on-prem across any cloud to provide data locality, accessibility, and elasticity. Alluxio is scalable to over a billion files in a single cluster, and its distributed architecture is built on three core components including Alluxio Master (manages file and object metadata), Alluxio Worker (manages node local space), and Alluxio Client (AI/ML application interface). The product also includes support for hyperscale workloads, flexible APIs, security and monitoring and management.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Denodo
The Denodo Platform offers data virtualization for joining multistructured data sources from database management systems, documents, and a wide variety of other big data, cloud, and enterprise sources. Connectivity support includes relational databases, legacy data, flat files, CML, packed applications, and emerging data types including Hadoop. Denodo is the only data virtualization solution to be provisioned as a virtual image on Amazon AWS Marketplace.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Diyotta
Diyotta is a unified data integration platform that integrates with modern data lake and data warehousing environments. The drag-and-drop user interface and native processing capabilities make this product one to consider. Diyotta enables shorter development times, faster data movement, and reusability across the enterprise to make future development simple. Diyotta touts the industry’s first data integration software to leverage modern data processing platforms like Hadoop, Snowflake, Google BigQuery, and Amazon Redshift.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Fivetran
Fivetran is an automated data integration platform that delivers ready-to-use connectors, transformations and analytics templates that adapt as schemas and APIs change. The product can sync data from cloud applications, databases, and event logs. Integrations are built for analysts who need data centralized but don’t want to spend time maintaining their own pipelines or ETL systems. Fivetran is easy to deploy, scalable, and offers some of the best security features of any provider in the space.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Informatica
Informatica’s data integration tools portfolio includes both on-prem and cloud deployments for a number of enterprise use cases. The vendor combines advanced hybrid integration and governance functionality with self-service business access for various analytic functions. Augmented integration is possible via Informatica’s CLAIRE Engine, a metadata-driven AI engine that applies machine learning. Informatica touts strong interoperability between its growing list of data management software products.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Infoworks
Infoworks offers an automated data operations and orchestration platform called DataFoundry. The product provides a no-code environment for configuring the ingestion of data (batch, streaming, change data capture) from a variety of data sources. Infoworks uses native connectors when possible to provide ingestion feasible and ingest source data while automatically preserving data precision. It automatically crawls data sources and relational databases, learns the metadata and infers data relationships for ingested data from external data sources.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Matillion
Matillion offers data integration software for cloud data warehouses, and was designed for Amazon Redshift, Snowflake, and Google BigQuery. The product works by allowing users to consolidate large data sets and quickly perform data transformations. It features expert technical support as well, all by Matillion solution architects and comes free of charge. Full support is offered throughout the customer lifecycle, including trial and complex use case development. Matillion includes more than 70 pre-built connectors.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Striim
Striim offers a real-time data integration solution that enables continuous query processing and streaming analytics. Striim integrates data from a wide variety of sources, including transaction/change data, events, log files, application and IoT sensor, and real-time correlation across multiple streams. The platform features pre-built data pipelines, out-of-the-box wizards for configuration and coding, and a drag-and-drop dashboard builder.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
StreamSets
StreamSets offers a DataOps platform that features smart data pipelines with built-in data drift detection and handling, as well as a hybrid architecture. The product also includes automation and collaboration capabilities across the design-deploy-operate lifecycle. StreamSets monitors data in-flight to detect changes and predicts downstream issues to ensure continuous delivery without errors or data loss. The tool’s live data map, data performance SLAs and data protection functionality are major value-adds.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Syncsort
Syncsort offers its data integration capabilities via two product families, Syncsort Connect and Syncsort Ironstream. The company’s flagship application data integration tools are the Syncsort Connect product family. Syncsort allows users to hasten database queries and applications by putting relational databases to best use. The Intelligent Execution feature dynamically selects the most efficient algorithms based on the data structures and system attributes it encounters at run-time.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Talend
Talend offers an expansive portfolio of data integration and data management tools. The company’s flagship tool, Open Studio for Data Integration, is available via a free open-source license. Talend Integration Cloud is offered in three separate editions (SaaS, hybrid, elastic), and provides broad connectivity, built-in data quality, and native code generation to support big data technologies. Big data components and connectors include Hadoop, NoSQL, MapReduce, Spark, machine leaning and IoT.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Tamr
Tamr offers a machine learning-based data integration product called Unify. The solution allows organizations to connect to any tabular data and publish it anywhere. Users can map schemas with machine learning suggestions and normalize data formats using Spark and SQL. Tamr’s Master Records feature provides a complete view of all entities via simple yes and no questions as well. Tamr has also begun offering an issue tracker specifically designed for data called Steward (beta).
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Trifacta
Trifacta offers a suite of what its dubbed ‘data wrangling’ tools in three different iterations: Trifacta Wrangler, Wrangler Edge, and Wrangler Enterprise. Trifacta allows users to do data prep without having to manually write code or use mapping-based systems. The Predictive Transformation function enables the exploration of data content so users can define a recipe for how the data should be transformed. Data Wrangler also includes data discovery, structuring, cleaning, enriching, and validation capabilities.
Learn more and compare data integration tools companies with the Data Integration Vendor Comparison Map.
Read the 2020 CRN Big Data 100.

 


 Author Recent Posts   Follow TimTimothy KingSenior Editor at Solutions ReviewTim is Solutions Review's Editorial Director and leads coverage on big data, business intelligence, and data analytics. A 2017 and 2018 Most Influential Business Journalist and 2021 "Who's Who" in data management and data integration, Tim is a recognized influencer and thought leader in enterprise business software. Reach him via tking at solutionsreview dot com.  Follow TimLatest posts by Timothy King (see all)  The 9 Best Data Integration Books You Should Read in 2022 - May 13, 2022   The 14 Best Database Virtualization Tools and Software for 2022 - May 3, 2022   The 6 Best Talend Courses and Online Training for 2022 - April 26, 2022   Share this:LinkedInTwitterFacebook 

Tagged Big Data 100CRN 


Post navigation
Previous Previous post: Three Common API Management Use Cases You Need to KnowNext Next post: Syncsort Rebrands as Precisely After Pitney Bowes Data Acquisition
 
Related Posts



Fast Growing Talend Names Jim Foy New CEO



CloverETL:  “Always After Me Hadoop Support”



HiT Software Release DBMoto 8 with Support for HP Vertica




 


 Featured Video



 
 Vendor Map Report Data Integration

Top Posts & Pages





Top 13 Free and Open Source ETL Tools for Data Integration







The 16 Top Integration Platform as a Service Vendors for 2022







The 17 Best Application Integration Tools to Consider for 2022







The 14 Best Data Virtualization Tools and Software for 2022







The 6 Best MuleSoft Tutorials on YouTube to Watch Right Now







The 10 Best Change Data Capture Tools to Consider in 2022







The 3 Best AWS Data Engineering Certifications to Consider for 2022







The 9 Best Data Wrangling Tools and Software for 2022







The 18 Best Data Replication Software and Tools to Consider for 2022







The 28 Best Data Transformation Tools and Software for 2022



 

500 W. Cummings Park | Woburn, MA | USA 


Solutions Review

500 West Cummings Park

Woburn, MA 01801


Matt Adamson

Editor

(339) 927-9237

madamson@solutionsreview.com
 





 


Solutions Review brings all of the technology news, opinion, best practices and industry events together in one place.  Every day our editors scan the Web looking for the most relevant content about Data Integration and posts it here.
 

Related Solutions Review SitesBusiness Intelligence
Data Management
Data Storage
Backup and Disaster Recovery
Information Security
 

 
twitterfacebooklinkedinyoutubeemailMy Tweets 

Data Integration Buyer’s Guide 



 




© 2012-2022 Solutions Review. All rights reserved.
Solutions Review - Data Integration | Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Info






 
Top































We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.OkPrivacy policy



