
















3 Middleware Software Tools: Comparison and Review



























































































Toggle navigation









Kubernetes
Services
Customers
Insights
About Us
Contact

Kubernetes
Services
Customers
Insights
About Us
Contact












3 Middleware Software Tools: Comparison and Review



									Published On: April 3, 2017								


									by									


											Shadow-Soft Team										





As the name suggests, middleware is a software layer that sits in the middle between separate applications – providing an interface that “glues” these programs together. The word “middleware” is a catch-all term that describes many of the applications most commonly in use today, such as web and application servers, database access services and content management systems.
Middleware is a form of infrastructure that enables complex business applications to take shape. Often, the original parts of such an application were not intended to communicate with each other, requiring specially designed middleware to bridge the gap between them. Each component of a complex application may be developed using different programming languages, protocols and platforms. Therefore, middleware provides services such as messaging, concurrency and threading that allows these components to “talk” to each other and execute at the same time.
Applications use middleware for a variety of reasons. Middleware can be used to “smooth over” the appearance of the application and hide its distributed nature, eliminating any differences in terms of operating systems, hardware or protocols. Using middleware also makes it easier for developers to have a uniform interface to work with, so different components of the application can be reused and ported to other locations.
In recent years, the industry has seen a shift to open-source middleware as more mature, stable solutions have emerged. Open-source middleware has much to recommend it: Users are free to modify the source code for their own needs and purposes, and you have full visibility and transparency into the solution so you know your applications are secure. Here’s a look at three of the most popular choices for enterprise middleware: Red Hat JBoss EAP, IBM WebSphere and Oracle WebLogic.
1. Red Hat JBoss Enterprise Application Platform (EAP)
Red Hat JBoss Enterprise Application Platform (EAP) is a mouthful of a name, and it packs a powerful punch as well. Version 7 of the software was released last year, providing a cloud-compatible, flexible solution for enterprises looking to increase their agility.
Benefits of JBoss EAP

Solid architectural foundation, with quick start-up times and low memory usage
Out-of-the-box integration with DevOps tools such as Maven, Jenkins and Arquillian
“JBoss Migration Center” at JBoss.org makes it simpler to move your existing applications
High-quality support, consistently outperforming the other two solutions in customer surveys

JBoss EAP Pricing and Support
A standard one-year subscription to JBoss EAP running on 16 CPU cores will cost your organization $8,000, which includes web and phone support during standard business hours. If you need premium support, which includes 24/7 assistance for problems of urgent and high-level importance, you’ll be paying $12,000 annually.
2. IBM WebSphere
IBM promotes its solution WebSphere Application Server as a high-performance, feature-rich option – the Ferrari to Red Hat’s Ford Focus, if you will. But are the advantages worth the higher price tag?
Benefits of IBM WebSphere

Rapid installation, deployment and development
Support for on-premises, cloud-based and hybrid solutions
Integration with other IBM products in the cloud, such as the Watson artificial intelligence and the dashDB SQL database service
Flexible, robust architecture that can scale to match demand

IBM WebSphere Pricing and Support
WebSphere Application Server is free of charge without support, and with a maximum heap size of 2 gigabytes for the Java Virtual Machine. After that, the cost to run IBM WebSphere is based on PVUs (Processor Value Units), which vary based on the type of processor you’re using. As of writing, the annual cost of a subscription and support plan was $55.25 per PVU, or $14,100 per limited use socket.
3. Oracle WebLogic
Last but certainly not least, Oracle WebLogic is the third contender when it comes to enterprise options for middleware – with much to recommend it.
Benefits of Oracle WebLogic

Oracle’s Enterprise Grid Messaging is a high-performance architecture for communication between applications
Hassle-free application deployment, resulting in lower operational costs
Oracle JRockit, at the hood of WebLogic, claims to be the “fastest JVM in the industry”
Easy integration with other Oracle applications and databases

Oracle WebLogic Pricing and Support
Oracle allows enterprise users to license WebLogic via either the number of users or the number of processors. An annual subscription will cost $5,000 per processor or $100 per user, as well as a license and support fee equal to $5,500 or $110 respectively. Multi-year and perpetual licenses are also available for purchase.
Final Thoughts
All three of these middleware solutions are strong options, so the choice ultimately comes down to your circumstances. If you rely on other products in the IBM or Oracle ecosystems, for example, then it makes sense to use their middleware offerings as well. In the end, it’s worth the effort to speak with sales reps about your organization’s particular situation, so you can be better informed and make the right decision for your company.




								Filled under: DevOps 



 



				Written by				
					Shadow-Soft Team				


				View more posts written by this author »
			













 

 









Company

About
Academy
Careers
Contact
Customers
Enablement
Events
Partners


Resources

Blog
Case Studies
Kubernetes for IT Ops
Partner Resources
Application Modernization Podcast
Technical Advisory Team
Videos & Webinars
View All Resources


Services

Ansible Consulting
AWS Consulting
Kubernetes Consulting
Kubernetes Healthcheck
Microsoft Azure Consulting
OpenShift Consulting
Terraform Consulting
Vault Consulting


Support

Support Portal
Icinga Support Subscription
OpenJDK Support
Brand Guide & Logos





contact@shadow-soft.com  |  770-546-0077© 2021 Shadow-Soft  |  Privacy Policy
































