





















5 open source dashboard tools for visualizing data | Opensource.com












      Skip to main content
    





















User account menu


Log in


Sign Up


Facebook


Twitter


RSS





















Main navigation


Articles


Linux


Command line




Kubernetes


Programming


Go


JavaScript


Python




Containers


Sysadmin


DevOps


Gaming


Hardware


3D printing


Arduino


Raspberry Pi




Government


Law


Open Organization


What is an open organization?


What is an open decision?






Resources


What is open source?


The open source way




Projects and applications


Organizations


Cloud technology


Ansible


Big data


Data science


Docker


Git


Internet of things


Java


Kubernetes


Linux containers


Microservices


OpenStack


Python


Python GUI frameworks


Python IDEs


Python template libraries


Python web scrapers




Software defined networking


Virtualization




Open source alternatives


Alternatives to Acrobat


Alternatives to AutoCAD


Alternatives to Dreamweaver


Alternatives to Gmail


Alternatives to MATLAB


Alternatives to Minecraft


Alternatives to Google Photos


Alternatives to Photoshop


Alternatives to Skype


Alternatives to Slack


Alternatives to Trello


More...




Linux




Downloads


Cheat sheets


DevOps guides


Programming guides


Sysadmin guides


eBooks


Open Source Yearbook


Open Organization series




Community


About Opensource.com


Welcome to the Opensource.com community


Meet the team


Create an account


Rules for comments and discussions


Correspondent Program


Frequently Asked Questions




Contribute to Opensource.com


Opensource.com style guide


Writing topics




Contact Us









Search













x
Subscribe to our newsletter.
Stay on top of the latest thoughts, strategies and insights from enterprising peers.





5 open source dashboard tools for visualizing data




Trying to communicate lots of complex data points quickly?



          By 

Jason Baker
(Advisor, Red Hat)




November 10, 2016 |
7 Comments 
|
%t min read








856 readers like this
856 readers like this










 

Image by: Opensource.com





To start with a confession, I like dashboards. A lot.
I've always been fascinated by finding new and interesting ways to bring meaning to data with interactive visualization tools. While I'm definitely a geek for numbers, the human mind is simply much better at interpreting trends visually than it is just picking them out a spreadsheet. And even when your main interest in a dataset is the raw numbers themselves, a dashboard can help to bring meaning by highlighting which values matter most, and what the context of those numbers is.
Figuring out how to best visualize your data can be challenging. Maybe you started out by creating a few graphs in a spreadsheet and are trying to find a way to tie them all together. Or maybe you're working with an existing analytics tool and want to find a way to make your data more accessible to a wider audience. Or perhaps you've go several real-time sources and are trying to find a way to tie them all together.
Fortunately, there are a number of great open source dashboard tools out there that make the job much easier. On one end of the spectrum are open source business intelligence tools, like BIRT or Pentaho. But for a smaller project, tools like these could be overkill, and in some cases, you might be able to find a dashboard tool that is already designed to work with the kind of data you are dealing with.
Here's a look at a few open source dashboard tools that you might consider.
Freeboard
Freeboard is a dashboard tool designed with simplicity and ease-of-use at top of the mind. It's JavaScript system is drag-and-drop capable, and new data sources can be added with no programming experience. Designed for IoT uses, it can easily be used to create attractive dashboards for nearly any purpose, and is a great choice if you're just starting out with creating dashboards and want to get started quickly. The project also offers free and paid hosted plans, allowing you to create a dashboard using an open source tool without needing to install anything at all.
The code for Freeboard can be found on GitHub under an MIT license.
Mozaïk
Mozaïk is a Node.js-based dashboard tool for creating dashboards that can be defined and built using relatively simply JavaScript configuration settings. Designed to be scalable and extendable, its layouts work well on multiple devices thanks to responsive HTML design. An online demo shows off a number of the features.
Mozaïk can be found on GitHub under an MIT license.
Dashbuilder
Dashbuilder is a Java-based dashboard tool which is designed to be customizable in a number of ways. It supports a variety of different visualization tools and libraries out of the box, and can be used to create either static or real-time dashboards with data coming from a variety of sources. A part of the JBoss community, Dashbuilder is designed to integrate with a number of tools you may already be using.
You can find the source to Dashbuilder on GitHub under an Apache 2 license.
Grafana
Grafana is a dashboard tool with a large following which is commonly used to monitor real-time data about server health and the various processes running on top. Like most of these tools, what you choose to use it for is up to you, and I have seen many interesting uses for Grafana outside of server monitoring. It supports a variety of different data sources, and includes many advanced features not found in some other tools including users and roles, snapshots, data annotations, and more.
Grafana's source, written largely in Go and TypeScript, can be found on GitHub under an Apache 2 license.
Stashbord
Stashboard is a slightly different kind of dashboard than some of the others we looked at. It was designed to provide you with information about cloud services and APIs, for those quickly wanting to learn whether a particular service is up or down. Originally created at Twilio for their phone service applications, Stashboard can be applied to pretty much any type of service and is designed to be run easily as an independent application so that it can display the status of your project even if the main site goes down.
Stashboard's Python-based source is available on GitHub under an MIT license.

These are far from the only options. There are many others to choose from, and there are many data visualization libraries and templating tools out there that might help you roll your own. What open source tools are you using to create dashboards, and what do you like about your tool of choice? Let us know in the comments below.



What to read next



Tags

Business
Analytics and metrics
Alternatives
Tools







Jason Baker 
I use technology to make the world more open. Linux desktop enthusiast. Map/geospatial nerd. Raspberry Pi tinkerer. Data analysis and visualization geek. Occasional coder. Sysadmin. Web maker. Red Hatter since 2013.
More about me















7 Comments
These comments are closed, however you can Register or Login to post a comment on another article.





 




        Earl Jackson  | November 10, 2016
        
      

Tableau software is becoming the standard in data visualization tools.










 




        Ricardo J. Barberis | November 11, 2016
        
      

But it's not open source...



In reply to Tableau software is becoming by Earl Jackson  (not verified)







 




        Stan | November 11, 2016
        
      

Thanks for the article. I am going to mention couple of similar that I came across:
http://initialstate.com
https://io.adafruit.com









 




        Pablo Cabrera | November 14, 2016
        
      

R is also a good alternative.  The folks at Rstudio are doing an excellent job with shiny https://rstudio.github.io/shinydashboard/









 




Costa Tsaousis | November 15, 2016
        
      

Check netdata:
demo: http://my-netdata.io
repo: https://github.com/firehol/netdata
netdata is a system for distributed real-time performance and health monitoring. It provides unparalleled insights, in real-time, of everything happening on the system it runs (including applications such as web, or database servers), using modern interactive web dashboards.
netdata is featured at GitHub's Status of the Octoverse 2016: https://octoverse.github.com/









 




Borlat | December 3, 2016
        
      

You may also give ppm-factory (www.ppm-factory) a try for management and data visualization solution.









 




        stockman | January 22, 2017
        
      

Use Superset ( https://github.com/airbnb/superset ) by Airbnb.








Related Content


 

5 reasons to apply for B Corp certification
 

Try this open source alternative to Salesforce
 

5 open source alternatives to Doodle polls






This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 4.0 International License.







LinkedInTwitterFacebookWhatsAppEmailRedditMastodon

Location of your Mastodon instance:












Subscribe to our weekly newsletter



Privacy Statement










About This Site
The opinions expressed on this website are those of each author, not of the author's employer or of Red Hat.
Opensource.com aspires to publish all content under a Creative Commons license but may not be able to do so in all cases. You are responsible for ensuring that you have the necessary permission to reuse any work on this site. Red Hat and the Red Hat logo are trademarks of Red Hat, Inc., registered in the United States and other countries.
A note on advertising: Opensource.com does not sell advertising on the site or in any of its newsletters.





Contact
Follow us @opensource.com on Twitter
Like Opensource.com on Facebook
Watch us at Opensource.com
Follow us on Mastodon
RSS Feed












Copyright ©2021 Red Hat, Inc.



Legal


Privacy Policy


Terms of use


Contact














