


  

6 Alternatives to the Yahoo Finance API | DataDrivenInvestor



































































 






                     
Tech  AI Big Data Machine Learning Blockchain Cryptocurrency Fintech Software Programming Cybersecurity Tech giants   Finance  Markets Investing Strategies Economics Investors Traders Hedge Fund Alternative Data Valuation Economy   Entrepreneurship  Startup Small Business Leadership Management Growth Marketing Social Media Society Philosophy Well-Being   Contributors Submissions  Contributor Account Setup Main Site Article Submission   Apps  DDIChat DDIMario  DDImario Guides   DDImages   DDI Medium  DDI Medium Registration   About  DDI Ways To Work With DDI Subscribe to DDIntel Contact Us   


  Search 







   DataDrivenInvestor       



Tech  AI Big Data Machine Learning Blockchain Cryptocurrency Fintech Software Programming Cybersecurity Tech giants   Finance  Markets Investing Strategies Economics Investors Traders Hedge Fund Alternative Data Valuation Economy   Entrepreneurship  Startup Small Business Leadership Management Growth Marketing Social Media Society Philosophy Well-Being   Contributors Submissions  Contributor Account Setup Main Site Article Submission   Apps  DDIChat DDIMario  DDImario Guides   DDImages   DDI Medium  DDI Medium Registration   About  DDI Ways To Work With DDI Subscribe to DDIntel Contact Us   
  

 


Home  Technology  Big Data  6 Alternatives to the Yahoo Finance API
Binary code on a surface of a planet
TechnologyBig DataFinanceHedge FundInvestors 6 Alternatives to the Yahoo Finance API

By John DeCleene February 25, 2019 5133817



  
 Table of Contents Alpha VantageWorld Trading DataQuandlIntrinioEOD Historical DataIEXYahoo Finance API is over — long live New Finance APIs!

The Yahoo Finance API has long been a reliable tool for many of the data-driven investors. Many have relied on their real-time data-flow and have built neat trading applications. Tragically, one day Yahoo decided to discontinue their service and slapped a hefty price-tag on getting data from them.

Luckily, the world has not stopped, and there are great new APIs which can give you top-notch financial data (mostly) for free!
Let’s see the 6 alternative finance APIs:
Alpha Vantage
What happens when you bring together a community of researchers, developers, and business analysts? A free finance API, with real-time and historical data about stocks, forex (FX), digital assets. They have huge support from third-party developers, and different integrations are available on GitHub from enthusiastic supporters. Fans have been impressed with its ease of use, the variety of functions and data, and the quality of service- all of which is free!
Learn how to use these Finance APIs to make informed investment decisions
World Trading Data
This is a great database collecting financial prices from all over the world. World Trading Data offers both historical and real-time info, with intraday updates from minute-by-minute to hourly refreshing. They also offer updates on currency prices. It has been praised for the reliability and variety of their service. Their basic package is free, but if you need more data, you might need to sign up for a paid plan.
Quandl
400,000 customers can’t be wrong- Quandl is a top-notch data source for financial and economic analysis. Their datasets are used by top hedge funds, asset managers, and investment banks. They provide core financial data and alternative datasets for institutional clients. One of the key advantages of Quandl is that they present information in different forms, so the analyst can choose what works best for them without the need to spend time transforming datasets. Anonymous API users have 20 calls per 10 minutes or 50 calls per day. Signing up means 300 calls per 10 seconds, 2,000 calls per 10 minutes and a limit of 50,000 calls per day.
Related Article: How to Code an Algorithmic Trading Strategy in 25 Minutes
Intrinio
Through one simple API, Intrinio offers 300+ data feeds, with its backend using machine learning and AI algorithms to sort through and clean data. Most of the trial sets are available for free, but then you pay for what you use- by getting charged for each feed you download. The API might be different from the original Yahoo version, though there is a ton of documentation to get the setup right.
EOD Historical Data
EOD provides real-time and historical data from the stock, mutual fund, and ETF market, pulling together an impressive 500 million data points. They cover 60+ stock exchanges, 120,000 symbols, 120+ cryptocurrencies and 50+ FOREX pairs. Talk about selection!
For tests, you can get free API access, but for more data, they require a monthly subscription starting from $9.99 a month.
IEX
For those who are more tech-savvy, IEX provides a great option to get market data. IEX is a small, but fast-growing index, providing a new specialized look at the volatile, dark, and out-of-reach market for the average trader. IEX was created in response to questionable trading practices that had become widely used across traditional public Wall Street exchanges, as well as dark pools and other alternative trading systems. IEX levels the playing field with transparency in a straightforward manner. See more about them here!


Looking to develop your own trading strategy or software? Here are some great courses to get started!
Machine Learning and Reinforcement Learning in Finance Specialization
Offered by: New York University Tandon School of Engineering
Algorithmic Trading and Python for Trading Course
Offered by: AlgoTrading101

Previous articleThe 12 key MWC sessions for emerging tech and transhumanismNext articleBlockchain: Answering a Charge of “Crappy Technology”John DeCleeneWhilst having spent a lot of his life in Asia, John DeCleene has lived and studied all over the world - including spells in Hong Kong, Mexico, The U.S. and China. He graduated with a BA in Political Science from Tulane University in 2016. Fluent in English and proficient in Mandarin and Spanish, he can communicate and connect with most of the world’s population too, and this certainly helped John as he gained work experience interning for the U.S.-Taiwan Business counsel in Washington D.C. as an investment analyst and then working alongside U.S. Senator Robert P. Casey of Pennsylvania as a legislative intern. He subsequently worked as a business analyst for a mutual fund in Singapore, where his passion for travel and aptitude for creating connections between opportunities and ideas was the perfect intersection of natural ability and experience, spending his time travelling between Cambodia, Hong Kong, and China investigating and discovering untapped investment opportunities. John is a fund manager for OCIM’s fintech fund, and currently progressing towards becoming a CFA charter holder. He loves to travel for business and pleasure, having visited 38 countries (including North Korea); he represents the new breed of global citizen for the 21st century. 
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR




 Correction Is Here? What To Expect On Startup Valuations And Round Dynamics Moving Forward


 Perfecting Your Pitch Deck? 10 Practices For Entrepreneurs


 Go To Market – 3 Ways Startups Can Hack It
 5 COMMENTS
    Ryan  July 3, 2019 at 3:03 pm    there’s another API you probably should add https://unibit.ai/docs. it’s actually pretty good Reply 
    Thomas  August 17, 2020 at 5:58 am    You should also add SimFin (https://simfin.com/) to the list, they offer (in my opinion) the best free API for company fundamentals and share prices (although they don’t have intraday prices). Their premium subscription that offers unlimited API calls is also by far the cheapest anywhere at USD 20/month. Reply 
    LarsLeeway  July 22, 2021 at 11:21 am    At Leeway dot tech we offer an API for price and fundamental stock data with history at very affordable prices. Documentation can be found at the data API page. Contact us any time via E-Mail in case of questions. Reply 
    pandas yahoo finance real time data - Tutorial Guruji  September 20, 2021 at 11:54 pm    […] Yahoo has ended their free finance API so this answer is no longer relevant. Below is my answer for pre-2019 purposes. […] Reply 
    James Whyte  September 30, 2021 at 4:36 pm    StockData.org is one of the best stock market and forex data providers out there. Completely free and real-time updates including extended hours data, historical data going back 40+ years for over 70 exchanges and indices. Reply 


LEAVE A REPLY Cancel reply

Please enter your comment!

Please enter your name here

You have entered an incorrect email address!Please enter your email address here Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
 




  

Δ

Latest Posts



How to get the latest commodity pricing in Google Sheet  May 23, 2022


Economy Going Down? How Startups Can Thrive In A Bear Market  May 23, 2022


Recommendation Engines: Making Better Choices  May 17, 2022


Why We Invested in Resilient Lifescience — Preventing Opioid Overdose  May 16, 2022


Who should lead the digital agenda?  May 16, 2022


Will The Metaverse’s Investment Hype Die Out?  May 16, 2022


So, What Business Are You Really In?  May 12, 2022


12 NFT Projects Changing the NFT Space in 2022  May 11, 2022


History and Modernity of Algorithmic Trading  May 10, 2022


What’s Next for Darktrace? Can DARK Snap Out of its LSE...  May 9, 2022





EDITOR PICKS



State-Run Insurance for all or across the State lines Private Healthcare...  May 21, 2020


DDI – Medium Top Stories August, 2019  September 6, 2019


DDI – Medium Top Stories July, 2019  August 2, 2019
POPULAR POSTS



6 Alternatives to the Yahoo Finance API  February 25, 2019


Why Inclusive Wealth Index is a better measure of societal progress...  March 8, 2019


10 Alternatives to Google Finance Portfolio  June 28, 2019
POPULAR CATEGORYBlockchain304Cryptocurrency283Startup254Markets240Society235AI233Technology204Investors199Finance191


ABOUT USWe are on the cusp of a data revolution.
In virtually all walks of life, the mass proliferation of data is transforming the way we perceive the world. And only now are we waking up to its enormous potential for helping us make better, more accurate and more informed decisions.
Data Driven Investor (DDI) is dedicated to uncovering how ordinary people can best utilize data to make those decisions.FOLLOW US






















DDI Blockchain Data Science Fintech DDI Medium  © Copyright 2021 by Data Driven Investor.



 Accept & Close  Like most websites DDI uses cookies. In order to deliver a personalized, responsive service and to improve the site, we remember and store information about how you use it. This is done using simple text files called cookies which sit on your computer. These cookies are completely safe and secure and will never contain any sensitive information. 









 Follow DDI
 Gain Access to Expert Views






Subscribe
We won't send you spam. Unsubscribe at any time.






Edit with Live CSS





Save
Write CSS OR LESS and hit save. CTRL + SPACE for auto-complete.














































