












9 Best Big Data ETL Tools



























































 






Skip to content  






You can contribute any number of in-depth posts on all things data.

Write for Hevo














Platform
Integrations
Pricing







Search





          Get Started for Free
        
















9 Best Big Data ETL Tools

Oshi Varma on Data Integration, ETL            •
            August 21st, 2020            •
            Write for Hevo
            








Are you searching for a Big Data ETL tool? Are you confused about which ETL tool fits your requirements? If yes, then this blog will answer all your queries. This blog will take you through Big Data, ETL, and Big Data ETL tools available in the market. You will also learn what each Big Data ETL tool offers at different price ranges. 
Table of contents
Introduction to Big DataIntroduction to ETL ToolsTop 9 Big Data ETL ToolsConclusion
Introduction to Big Data
Big data is a term used to describe a large volume of complex data. This data can be in a structured, semi-structured, or unstructured format. It’s almost impossible to process big data using traditional methods as this data grows exponentially. Traditional methods include a relational database system, but because of the different structures of data, traditional methods failed. Big data helps us to manage different formats of data conveniently. 
Some of the use cases of Big data are:
Companies like Facebook ingest 500+ terabytes of data almost every day in an unstructured format.Companies use Big data to get valuable insights into their data and help them improve their marketing campaigns.Companies like Jet Airways generate 10+ terabytes of data every day.The data generated can help you reveal how customers feel about the company or brand. It can help you improve your customer service and product.
Introduction to ETL Tools
ETL stands for ‘Extract, Transform, and Load’. ETL is the process of moving your data from a source to a data warehouse. This step is one of the most crucial steps in your data analysis process. ETL tools are applications that let users execute the ETL process. These tools help users move their data from source to destination. The modern Big Data ETL process includes a large number of scheduled processes for data migration. Coordination and execution of all these activities with a large and complex volume of data makes Big Data ETL tools extremely important. 
Choosing an ETL tool for your use case can be a make-or-break situation. You can consider the following factors while choosing a Big Data ETL tool for yourself:
OverviewPricingUse Case
Best Big Data ETL Tools in 2020
Here’s the list of the best Big Data ETL tools in the market. This list will remove the hassle involved in searching for the correct Big Data ETL tool for you. 
Hevo DataTalend (Talend Open Studio For Data Integration)Informatica – PowerCenterIBM Infosphere Information ServerPentaho Data IntegrationCloverDXOracle Data IntegratorStreamSetsMatillion

Top 9 Big Data ETL Tools
Let’s compare some of the top-notch Big Data ETL tools in the market using the factors stated above.
1. Hevo Data: No-code Data Pipeline
Overview
Image Source: Hevo Data
Hevo is a No-code Data Pipeline. It supports pre-built data integrations from 100+ data sources. Hevo is a fully managed solution for your data migration. It will automate your data flow in minutes. Its fault-tolerant architecture makes sure that your data is secure and consistent. Hevo provides you with a truly efficient and fully automated solution to manage data in real-time and always have analysis-ready data in your desired destination. 
Get Started with Hevo for Free
Let’s look at some salient features of Hevo:
Fully Managed: It requires no management and maintenance as Hevo is a fully automated platform.Data Transformation: It provides a simple interface to perfect, modify, and enrich the data you want to transfer. Real-Time: Hevo offers real-time data migration. So, your data is always ready for analysis.Schema Management: Hevo can automatically detect the schema of the incoming data and maps it to the destination schema.Live Monitoring: Advanced monitoring gives you a one-stop view to watch all the activities that occur within pipelines.Live Support: Hevo team is available round the clock to extend exceptional support to its customers through chat, email, and support call.
 Sign up here for a 14-Day Free Trial!
Pricing
Image Source
Hevo Data provides users with three different subscription offerings, namely, Free, Starter, and Business. The free plan houses support for unlimited free data sources, allowing users to load their data to a data warehouse/desired destination for absolutely no cost! The basic Starter plan is available at $249/month and can be scaled up as per your data requirements. You can also opt for the Business plan and get a tailor-made plan devised exclusively for your business. Know more about Hevo’s pricing here. 
Use Case
You can use Hevo for companies that want a seamless data pipeline experience. Hevo supports pre-built data integration with 100+ data sources. It allows data migration in real-time. It is an ETL, and ELT platform, hence you will always have analysis-ready data.








Download the Guide to Evaluate ETL Tools
Learn the 10 key parameters while selecting the right ETL tool for your use case.


Get Guide for Free







2. Talend (Talend Open Studio For Data Integration)
Overview
Source: https://www.talend.com/
Talend is one of the most popular big data and cloud integration software. It is built on Eclipse graphic environment. Talend supports cloud and on-premise databases. It offers a connector to other software as Saas. It offers a smooth workflow and can be adapted easily. You can deploy it on the cloud. 
Pricing
Talend offers a variety of pricing plans. It costs $12,000 annually or $1170 monthly for the data integration. Know more about pricing here. 
Use Case
If you are a company with strict compliance requirements to spread risk across several clouds, then Talend is the right tool. Talend offers data integration with on-premise data warehouses like Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, SAP, etc.
3. Informatica – PowerCenter
Overview
Source: https://www.informatica.com/
Informatica is an on-premise Big Data ETL tool. It supports data integration with various traditional databases. It is capable of delivering data on-demand, i.e., real-time and data capturing. It is best suited for large organizations. Advanced transformation, dynamic partitioning, data masking are some of the key features of PowerCenter. It is batch-based.
Pricing
The basic plan starts at $2000 a month. The pricing also depends on data sources, security, etc. Informatica doesn’t offer transparent pricing. Informatica through AWS and Azure offer pay as you go policy. Know more about the pricing here.
Use Case
It is best suited for a large organization that requires enterprise-grade security and data governance within their on-premise data. 
4. IBM Infosphere Information Server
Overview
Source: https://logodix.com/
IBM Infosphere Information Server is similar to Informatica. It’s an enterprise product for large organizations. It supports a cloud version that can be hosted on IBM cloud. It works well with mainframe computers. It supports integration with cloud data storage such as AWS S3, Google Storage, etc. With the help of JDBC, you can also integrate it with Redshift. Parallel processing is one of the most important features of Datastage. 
Pricing
IBM Information Server pricing includes Information Server Edition and InfoSphere DataStage. The pricing starts at $19,000 per month. It is considered expensive compared to other ETL tools. Know more about pricing here. 
Use Case
It is best suited for large enterprise-grade applications that have on-premise databases. 
5. Pentaho Data Integration 
Overview
Source: https://www.spicule.co.uk/
Pentaho is an open-source ETL. It is also termed as Kettle. It focuses on batch ETL and on-premise use cases. It supports hybrid and multiple cloud-based architectures. It allows data migration, data cleansing, and data loading for a large set of data sources. It offers a drag and drop interface and so, has a minimal learning curve. In the case of ad-hoc analysis, Pentaho is better than Talend as it interprets ETL procedures in XML files.  
Pricing
Pentaho community is free to use, whereas the Enterprise edition is not transparent. You can request a quote here.  
Use Case
If you want an open-source Big Data ETL in an on-premise ecosystem, then Pentaho is the right choice. The entire Pentaho suite can be deployed on a cloud provider or on-premise.
6. CloverDX
Overview
Source: https://www.cloverdx.com/
CloverDX is a Java-based ETL tool for rapid automation of data integration. It supports data transformations and data integration with numerous data sources like emails, XML, JSON, etc. It has job scheduling and monitoring. It offers a distributed environment which provides high scalability and availability.
Pricing
Its pricing starts at $5000 as a one-time payment per user. It offers a free trial for its users. Know more about CloverDX pricing here.
Use Case
If you are looking for an open-source Big Data ETL tool with real-time data analysis, then CloverDX is the right choice. You can also use it for the deployment of data workloads on a cloud provider or on-premise.   
7. Oracle Data Integrator
Overview
Source: https://www.oracle.com/
Oracle Data Integrator is an ETL tool developed by Oracle. It combines the features of the proprietary engine with an ETL tool. It is fast and requires minimal maintenance. Load plan contains an object for the execution of your Big Data ETL process. You can select your load plan by choosing one or more data sources. It is capable of identifying faulty data and recycles it before it reaches your destination. Some of the supported databases are IBM DB2, Exadata, etc.
Pricing
Companies can take license ODI on a ‘named user plus’ per processor or basis. It costs $900 per named user plus and $198 for a software update license. Know more about Oracle Data Integrator pricing here. 
Use Case
It can be used for business intelligence, data migration, big data integration, application integration, etc. If you have big data that needs to be deployed on the cloud, then it is a wise choice. It supports deployment using a bulk load, batch, real-time, cloud, and web services.
8. StreamSets
Overview
Source: https://streamsets.com/
StreamSets is a DataOps tool. It supports data monitoring and a variety of data sources and destinations for integration. It is a cloud-optimized and real-time ETL tool. Many enterprises use StreamSets to consolidate dozens of data sources for analysis. It also supports data protectors with major data security guidelines like GDPR and HIPAA.
Pricing
StreamSet’s Standard plan is free, but for the Enterprise Edition, you have to request a quote here. 
Use Case
StreamSets allows companies to use their on-premise or cloud provider for defining a real-time data pipeline. If you are going to use a large number of Saas offerings, then StreamSet is not recommended. 
9. Matillion
Overview
Source: https://www.matillion.com/
Matillion is built specifically for Amazon Redshift, Azure Synapse, Google BigQuery, and Snowflake. It sits in between your raw data and BI tools. It takes over the compute-intensive activities of data loading from your on-premise. It is highly scalable as it is built to take data warehouse advantages. It can automate your data flows and offers drag and drops browser-based UI, to ease the building of ETL jobs.
Pricing
It offers four pricing models starting from $1.79 per hour. The Enterprise edition can be customized, and the price will depend on your usage. Know more about Matillion pricing here.
Use Case
If you are using Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3), Azure Synapse, BigQuery, or any similar data warehouse, then Matillion is a wise choice. However, it doesn’t support ETL load jobs to most of the data warehouses.  
Conclusion
In this blog, you have learned about various Big data ETL tools based on various factors. You can choose your Big Data ETL tool according to your requirements. If you want an open-source Big Data ETL, the CloverDX and Talend can be a wise choices. But, if you are looking for a real-time data pipeline, then try Hevo.
Hevo is a No-code Data Pipeline. You can migrate your data in just two simple steps. It will automate your data flow in minutes.
Visit our Website to Explore Hevo
Give Hevo a try by signing up for a 14-day free trial today.



Want to take Hevo for a spin? Sign Up for a 14-day free trial and experience the feature-rich Hevo suite first hand. You can also have a look at the unbeatable pricing that will help you choose the right plan for your business needs.
Share your experience of using Big Data ETL tools in the comment section below.





      No-code Data pipeline for your Data Warehouse      



        Try for free
      




Data Integration ETL














Continue Reading











Manjiri Gaikwad on Data Integration, Data Replication, Database Management Systems, MongoDB, Tutorials 
 MongoDB High Availability: How to Deploy & Run it Simplified 101 












Davor DSouza on AWS, Data Warehouses, ETL, ETL Tutorials 
 Serverless Framework AWS 101: A Comprehensive Guide 






Become a Contributor
You can contribute any number of in-depth posts on all things data. 
Write for Hevo













Bring Real-Time Data from Any Source into your Warehouse












              Get Started for Free
            




Talk to a Product Expert 
















              Platform
            



                  Product
                



                  Integrations
                
NEW



                  Pricing
                



                  Free Trial
                



                  Changelog
                



                  Status
                





              Concepts
            

ETL
Amazon Redshift
Google BigQuery
Snowflake




              Comparison Guides
            

ETL Tools
Data Pipeline Tools
Data Integration Tools
Redshift vs BigQuery
BigQuery vs Snowflake
Snowflake vs Redshift




              Tutorials
            

Redshift ETL
BigQuery ETL
Snowflake ETL
Change Data Capture






Write for hevo
You can contribute any number of in-depth posts on all things data.
            Know More

















            © Hevo Data Inc. 2022. All Rights Reserved.
          















          Free Trial
        









I want to read this e-book


Name*









Company*









Designation* (Select the one that most closely resembles your work.)


Please Select
Data Engineer/Data Engineer Lead
Data Analyst/Analytics Lead
Data Scientist/Data Science Lead
Analytics Engineer
Founder/CXO
Developer/Programmer/Lead
Marketer/Marketing Lead
Other








Your Designation*









Business Email*









Phone Number


|









Download Now
























 












