












Adapters for SAP Cloud Platform Integration: Integration with MS Dynamics CRM and RabbitMQ | SAP Blogs


































 



Skip to Content






Home
Community


Ask a Question
Write a Blog Post
Login / Sign-up









 















 


Peter Ha


January 12, 2016
1 minute read



Adapters for SAP Cloud Platform Integration: Integration with MS Dynamics CRM and RabbitMQ



3        

0        

3,578        




Introduction
This blog describes integration scenarios between Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Microsoft Azure Cloud Service Bus and RabbitMQ with SAP Cloud Platform Integration (f.k.a HCI). These scenarios are to show that non SAP integration scenarios can easily be implemented using third party adapters for SAP Cloud Platform Integration. The Advantco AMQP adapter for SAP Cloud Platform Integration and the MS DynCRM Adapter for SAP Cloud Platform Integration were developed based on the SAP Cloud Platform Integration ADK.
 
 
 
Scenarios
In the outbound scenario, SAP Cloud Platform Integration polls customer data from a RabbitMQ queue via the AMQP adapter and creates Accounts in Microsoft Dynamics CRM via the DYNCRM adapter. Upon changes to the Accounts in Dynamics, a plugin pushes the changes to an Azure Cloud Service Bus topic. An AMQP sender channel acts as a subscriber to the topic to receive the changes from Dynamics.
 

 
 
SAP Cloud Platform Integration Flows
The screenshots below show the some of the configuration steps for these scenarios in SAP Cloud Platform Integration
 
Integration package

 
Outbound scenario

 
Inbound Scenario

 
DYNCRM channel configuration

 
AMQP channel configuration









Follow Like 
RSS Feed
            








 


Alert Moderator
    

Alerting is not available for unauthorized users








Assigned TagsSimilar Blog PostsRelated Questions 





/






      3 Comments      

                You must be Logged on to comment or reply to a post.
        





 


Kavita Laddha 
January 13, 2016 at 1:03 pm





Good to know about these adapters. What about licensing of these adapters. 





Like 0ShareRight click and copy the link to share this comment 









 


Former Member  
September 12, 2017 at 1:10 pm




This particular adapter is included in the SAP Cloud Platform Integration subscription and there is no separate subscription required for all existing and new customers.
Source: https://blogs.sap.com/2017/05/16/sap-cloud-platform-integration-enhancing-the-third-party-application-connectivity-with-new-offerings/
 




Like 0ShareRight click and copy the link to share this comment 











 


Lakshmi Narasimhan Neelakantan  
November 21, 2017 at 12:15 am




Can we use AMQP adapters to receive messages for on-premise Rabbit MQ?




Like 0ShareRight click and copy the link to share this comment 





 






 




Find us on












Privacy
Terms of Use
Legal Disclosure
Copyright
Trademark

Newsletter
Support



 
 

































Visual
Text














 Insert/edit link
Close


Enter the destination URL

URL



Link Text




 Open link in a new tab


Or link to existing content



Search












No search term specified. Showing recent items.
Search or use up and down arrow keys to select an item.










Cancel







  


