




BAM Dashboards | My Fusion MiddleWare



























































































 





Skip to content


 My Fusion MiddleWare
This blog presents my experiences with Oracle Fusion Middleware


Menu

HomeAbout MyFMW
Jarvis Pizzeria





HomeBAM Dashboards 





BAM Dashboards

14 May 2017 Marcel van de Glind
12c, BAM, Dashboard, ViewBAM, Dashboard, View 


I shall now turn to the last part in the development cycle of a BAM project. The part where it for the end user is all about. The dashboards.

As usual first a brief explanation from the Oracle documentation.
A business view is a visual representation of data fetched by a business query or one or more key performance indicators (KPIs). A dashboard is a collection of related business views. To display data to users, a view must be included in a dashboard. Dashboards can display point-in-time or real-time information (active data). A tabbed dashboard contains other complete dashboards, which you view by clicking the tabs.
In my example project I created a tabbed dashboard containing two dashboards.
 
The rest of the post will be an explanation of the various components (views) in the dashboards.
Dashboard: Operational Management Part 1
1)  Organizational Tasks
 
This concerns a Tree Model. There can be clicked through on the view defined hierarchical levels. On the lowest level we find the individual employee. We can see how many open tasks per employee there are and how long on average a task is open. However, it is not possible to get to a details view of the open tasks. This would be a welcome addition. Without this it does not completely fulfil requirement 3 (see BAM Projects requirements).
I have also added an action message to see what it exactly is. Indicates that the specified message is shown in a popup. So this could for example be used as a general explanation/description of the view.
2) Open Tasks Alert

Next the Gauge. As stated in the BAM Views post I am especially interested in is whether it is possible to adjust the view on runtime (on design-time is in any case possible). E.g. switch to an Arrow presentation. Unfortunately that is not possible (requirement 2).  This would be a useful addition. So that each user can determine the most pleasant view. The gauge makes risks visually insightful so it fulfil requirement 11.
3) Today’s Summary & Yesterday’s Summary
 
These views both summaries tasks and have the possibility to drill through to the specific tasks (requirement 3 and 4).
4) Urgency

The current presentation is very much like that of today’s Summary & yesterday’s Summary but now I used a Pivot table. A Pivot Table combines rows and columns to display a multi-dimensional view of aggregated data values. A Pivot Table is summarized vertically and horizontally for columns and rows. It displays data from a Group SQL query with one or more aggregation types, one or more measures, and two or more dimensions. Because I have used only one aggregation type, the use of pivot table does not add much. You can sort and change the size of the cells.

The urgency is determined using a parameter ‘Urgency‘. This parameter is defined by the Data Object (BAM Parameters).

The pivot table is useful if multiple categories are used. So if I, for example, would have added the departments and teams. Back to the requirements. Does this chart meet any of them? It does not fulfil requirement 3, but it does fulfil requirement 7 and 8.
Dashboard: Operational Management Part 2
1) Open And Closed Tasks

The Open and Closed Tasks Line chart. I have added this chart with the intention to meet the requirements: 2, 3, 5, 6 and 8 (link). Requirement 2 is not met.  It’s not possible to change the view type on runtime. Requirement 3 is met partially (it is possible to click through to the details but not through the hierarchy like this is present in a Treemap). Requirements 5, 6 and 8 are met. Via an action button the Oracle website can be opened and data is filters (dynamic) by using parameters.
2) # Days Open List

This diagram I like the most from all I made. At the Calculated Fields is defined under what conditions which icon is shown as duration icon. Each line has a link with which it will be possible to open the associated task screen. In this way it is possible from a central dashboard in BAM to handle humantask (instead of using a worklist application). Dynamic Icons and Click through to the humantask (this meets requirement 1 and 10). And because this diagram also supports active data it also fulfils requirement 9.
3) Organizational Parts

For the presentation of the jurisdictional organization I have chosen a pie chart. The display of the data in this chart is also filtered by using a dashboard parameter (like in the urgency diagram). This means that it is possible to select a value the same way as it happened with urgency, but it is now also possible to make a selection by selecting a slice of the cake. By right clicking a slide and selecting the right menu option it is also possible to view the details of the selected cases. This chart fulfils the requirements  3, 6 and 8. Unfortunately it does not support requirement 2.
4) Logo

I have added this table view to determine whether it is possible to dynamically show different images. Using a dashboard parameter I have managed to do this. Result, however, is not quite as hoped. For example I did not succeed to hide the column header and I also didn’t manage to freeze the column width. The requirements 6, 8 and 10 are met by this chart.
5) Watchlist Tasks

And finally the KPI watch list. This does not contain any parameters, so the view is quite static. Risks are portrayed, but in this case, it is about all the cases. It is not possible to filter. By adding parameters it will be possible. When this is done the requirements 6 and 8 are met. Risk are made visible (requirement 11) and an actions is linked. A record is written in the Alerts DataObject when the number of open task is above 65 (requirement 12).
This brings me to the end of this post. You can download the full BAM project here. It also brings me almost to the end of this BAM series. The next post will be the last. This post consist of a wrap-up and a records demo.


 
Delen:TwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...

Related
 





Post navigation
← BAM Alerts BAM POC wrap-up and recording →



Leave a Reply Cancel reply


Enter your comment here...




Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:







 



 



 






 
 


Email (required) (Address never made public)



Name (required)



Website
















			You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			
















			You are commenting using your Twitter account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			
















			You are commenting using your Facebook account.			
				( Log Out / 
				Change )
			






Cancel
Connecting to %s




 Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
 



Δ 






Follow My Fusion MiddleWare on WordPress.com

Category Cloud11g 12c Access Management ACM ADF BAM BI BPEL BPM Business Object Case Management Dashboard DB Decision Model DO Dynamic Processes Humantask ICS Jarvis Java JMS Mediator OBR OIC PCS Query REST SOA UX WebForm Archives

December 2019 (1)
November 2019 (4)
October 2019 (4)
September 2019 (4)
August 2019 (2)
June 2018 (1)
May 2018 (1)
April 2018 (2)
March 2018 (2)
February 2018 (5)
January 2018 (4)
December 2017 (5)
November 2017 (4)
October 2017 (5)
September 2017 (4)
August 2017 (7)
May 2017 (3)
April 2017 (3)
March 2017 (3)
February 2017 (4)
January 2017 (5)
October 2015 (2)
June 2015 (2)
April 2015 (1)
March 2015 (1)
November 2014 (1)
June 2014 (2)
April 2014 (2)
March 2014 (3)
February 2014 (5)
April 2013 (3)
March 2013 (2)
February 2013 (7)
January 2013 (2)
July 2012 (1)
May 2012 (1)
April 2012 (4)
March 2012 (2)
February 2012 (2)
January 2012 (1)
November 2011 (3)
December 2010 (1)

 

Marcel van de Glind
I'm an experienced consultant in the field of process design and process modeling. Within this field system integration and IT-transcending business processes have my special interest.
Currently I’m specialist in Oracle technology like on-premise SOA and BPM suite (including all kind of related technology) and in the Cloud, OIC, PCS, ICS and VBCS.


				View Full Profile →			
 
 




Blog at WordPress.com.
















 



Follow


Following







				My Fusion MiddleWare			









 

												Sign me up											




											Already have a WordPress.com account? Log in now. 






 





				My Fusion MiddleWare			



 Customize




Follow


Following


Sign up
Log in
Copy shortlink
Report this content


											View post in Reader										


Manage subscriptions

Collapse this bar









 




















































































Loading Comments...



 


Write a Comment...




Email (Required)



Name (Required)



Website









































 


%d bloggers like this:		


 



