






Configure the Real-Time Dashboard Plugin




































AD Bridge

BeyondInsight/Password Safe

Cloud Privilege Broker

DevOps Secrets Safe

Privilege Management

Privileged Identity

Privileged Remote Access

Remote Support

www.beyondtrust.com











beyondtrust.com

Contact Sales

Contact Support















 






 






 







Tech Docs Home > Remote Support Home > 










Configure the Real-Time Dashboard Plugin for Integration with BeyondTrust Remote Support


             

        
You must purchase this integration separately from your BeyondTrust software. For more information, contact BeyondTrust sales.
Now that you have configured Microsoft IIS and the B Series Appliance, the next steps are to deploy and configure the Real-Time Dashboard plugin. 
For more information on installing and working with the BeyondTrust Middleware Engine, please see the BeyondTrust Remote Support Middleware Engine Installation and Configuration document .

Copy the provided plugin ZIP file to the server hosting the BeyondTrust Middleware Engine.
Extract the plugin ZIP file to the Plugins folder in the directory where the BeyondTrust Middleware Engine is installed.
Restart the BeyondTrust Middleware Engine Windows service.
From the server, launch the middleware administration tool. The default URL is http://127.0.0.1:53231.


The Real-Time Dashboard Plugin shows in the list of plugins. Click the clipboard icon to add a new configuration.

BeyondTrust Appliance B Series

The first portion of the plugin configuration provides the necessary settings for communication between the plugin and the BeyondTrust Appliance B Series.  The configuration sections include:



Plugin Configuration Name: Any desired value. Because multiple configurations can be created for a single plugin, allowing different environments to be targeted, provide a descriptive name to indicate how this plugin is to be used.
Appliance Id: This can be left as Default or can be given a custom name.
B Series Appliance Host Name: The hostname of the BeyondTrust Appliance B Series. Do not include https:// or other URL elements.
BeyondTrust Integration API OAuth Client ID: The Client ID of the OAuth account.
BeyondTrust Integration API OAuth Client Secret: The Client Secret of the OAuth account.
Locale Used for BeyondTrust API Calls: This value directs the B Series Appliance to return session data in the specified language.
Disabled: Enable or disable this plugin configuration.
Allow Invalid Certificates: Leave unchecked unless there is a specific need to allow. If enabled, invalid SSL certificates are allowed in calls performed by the plugin. This would allow, for example, self-signed certificates. This is not recommended in production environments.
Use Non-TLS Connections: Leave unchecked. TLS cannot be disabled for this type of plugin.
Real Time Events Types: Specify which events the plugin processes when received by the middleware engine. The following should be checked:Real Time Data UnavailableReal Time Data AvailableReal Time State Changed

Real-Time Dashboard Instance
The remainder of the plugin configuration provides the necessary settings for communication between the plugin and the Real-Time Dashboard instance.  The configuration settings include:

Company API Name: The value found on the /login > Status > Information page of the BeyondTrust Appliance B Series.
CSAT Polling Interval: (Optional) The interval in minutes for the plugin to pull customer surveys to obtain a customer satisfaction average. If this functionality is not desired, leave blank or set to 0.
CSAT Question Name: (Optional) The Question Name of the survey question to use for customer satisfaction levels. This is found by going to /login > Public Portals > Exit Surveys and editing the desired question.
Public Sites to Poll for CSAT: (Optional) A comma-separated list of public site IDs to poll for CSAT responses. If your BeyondTrust setup has only one public site, you can leave this field blank or enter 1. Otherwise, go to /login > Public Portals > Public Sites and edit each site you wish to include; the site ID appears in the URL. For example, if the URL is https://support.example.com/login/public_site/5/edit, then the site ID is 5.
Allowed Support Teams: (Optional) A comma-separated list of support team code names to include in the dashboard. This is considered an allow list of teams. Code names are found by going to /login > Configuration > Support Teams. If left blank, all teams are allowed.
Ignored Support Teams: (Optional) A comma-separated list of support team code names to exclude from the dashboard. This is considered a deny list of teams. Activity related to these teams is ignored by the real-time state API. Code names are found by going to /login > Configuration > Support Teams. If left blank, no teams are ignored.
Valid Session Start Methods: The types of sessions to show in the dashboard.
Real Time API Idle Timeout: The connection to the real-time state API is restarted if no data has been received within this number of minutes. If this functionality is not desired, leave blank or set to 0.
Waiting Session SLAs: Used to describe service-level agreements for waiting sessions by team. If a session has exceeded the SLA, an exlamation icon appears next to that session.
Real Time Dashboard Web Address: The local address on which the dashboard runs (e.g., http://localhost:53487/).
Format of representative names displayed in the Real Time Dashboard: The preferred format for displaying names in the Real-Time Dashboard.
Enable session details pop-up: If enabled, the Real-Time Dashboard contains links in various panels to view details about closed sessions.

After saving the configuration, click the test icon next to the new plugin configuration. No restart is needed.




Tech Docs Home

Remote Support Home














BeyondTrust is the worldwide leader in Privileged Access Management (PAM), empowering companies to secure and manage their entire universe of privileges. The BeyondTrust Universal Privilege Management approach secures and protects privileges across passwords, endpoints, and access, giving organizations the visibility and control they need to reduce risk, achieve compliance, and boost operational performance.
 


Solutions

Services

Blog

Resources

Manage Cookies

Contact Us





Facebook

Twitter

LinkedIn







Â©2003-2022 BeyondTrust Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Other trademarks identified on this page are owned by their respective owners. BeyondTrust is not a chartered bank or trust company, or depository institution. It is not authorized to accept deposits or trust accounts and is not licensed or regulated by any state or federal banking authority. 5/25/2022Top
























