











HazelcastMQ v1.0.0 with a STOMP and Apache Camel Implementation





























































BT









Live Webinar and Q&A: Streaming SQL on Apache Kafka for Real-Time Processing (Live Webinar May 26th, 2022)

                            Register Now
                        



Close
                    





Toggle Navigation 





                        Facilitating the Spread of Knowledge and Innovation in Professional Software Development
                    

English edition 




English edition
Chinese edition
Japanese edition
French edition






                        Contribute
                    





Search








Sign Up / Login











Email



Password





Forgot password ?




InfoQ Account Email





Back to login




Resend Activation





Back to login




Login with:

Google
Microsoft
Twitter
Facebook



Don't have an InfoQ account?
Sign Up







Notifications1




Login to unlock InfoQ's new features





Stay up to date and get notified
Like your favorite content
Follow your favorite editors and peers

Sign Up / Login
Don't have an account? Register Here









                        Logo - Back to homepage
                    

		
			
			
			
		2,429,182 Apr unique visitors
	


News
Articles
Presentations
Podcasts
Guides



Topics


Development


Java
Kotlin
.Net
C#
Swift
Go
Rust
JavaScript




Featured in  Development







Reproducible Development with Containers

Avdi Grimm describes the future of development, which is already here. Get a tour of a devcontainer, and contrast it with a deployment container.








All in  development




Architecture & Design


Architecture
Enterprise Architecture
Scalability/Performance
Design
Case Studies
Microservices
Service Mesh
Patterns
Security




Featured in  Architecture & Design







Oren Eini on RavenDB, including Consistency Guarantees and C# as the Implementation Language

Wesley Reisz talks to Oren Eini about the history of RavenDB. RavenDB is a fully transactional NoSQL Document database that implements both CP and AP guarantees at different times. The two discuss those CP/AP distributed systems challenges, the choice of implementation language (C#), and the current plans for RavenDB 6.0, which includes a server-side sharding implementation.








All in  architecture-design




AI, ML & Data Engineering


Big Data
Machine Learning
NoSQL
Database
Data Analytics
Streaming




Featured in  AI, ML & Data Engineering







Machine Learning at the Edge

Katharine Jarmul discusses utilizing new distributed data science and machine learning models, such as federated learning, to learn from data at the edge.








All in  ai-ml-data-eng




Culture & Methods


Agile
Diversity
Leadership
Lean/Kanban
Personal Growth
Scrum
Sociocracy
Software Craftmanship
Team Collaboration
Testing
UX




Featured in  Culture & Methods







How to Run Your Product Department Like a Coach

Having found what I thought was my calling as an agile coach, I took the tough decision to move sideways into Product Management in the hope of using what I’d learned to one day run my own department. I believed that coming from coaching would allow me to see things others could not and create something special. Time will tell if I have succeeded, this is the story of where I am up to so far.








All in  culture-methods




DevOps


Infrastructure
Continuous Delivery
Automation
Containers
Cloud
Observability




Featured in  DevOps







Panel: Secure Systems

The panelists discuss the security for the software supply chain and software security risk measurement.








All in  devops




EventsNew




Helpful links



                About InfoQ
            



                InfoQ Editors
            



                Contribute
            



                About C4Media
            


Diversity




Choose your language

En
中文
日本
Fr










InfoQ Live June
Learn how cloud architectures achieve cost savings, improve reliability & deliver value. Register Now.





InfoQ Live July
Learn how to migrate an application to serverless and what are the common mistakes to avoid. Register Now.





QCon San Francisco
Understand the emerging software trends you should pay attention to. Attend in-person on Oct 24-28, 2022.















InfoQ Homepage
News
HazelcastMQ v1.0.0 with a STOMP and Apache Camel Implementation







Microsoft JDConf ’22: Cloud Native Java, JVM Configuration, GraalVM, Spring Boot, and More - Watch All Sessions On-Demand 







							HazelcastMQ v1.0.0 with a STOMP and Apache Camel Implementation
						



					This item in
					

						japanese
					





Like

Print
Bookmarks











Jun 30, 2014
								
								
								
									
									1
									min read
								
							


by





Jan Stenberg







Write for InfoQ Join a community of experts. Increase your visibility.  Grow your career.Learn more







Version 1.0.0 of the message handler HazelcastMQ includes a new Java STOMP client and server implementation and an Apache Camel component, Mike Pilone recently reported.
HazelcastMQ provides a messaging layer on top of the basic Queue and Topic data structures in Hazelcast, an in-memory data grid, and can be embedded in a single JVM or clustered across a number of nodes. According to Mike these new additions simplifies setup of a clustered, scalable messaging architecture without a centralized broker.
HazelcastMQ is divided into components, including:

A core message queue (MQ) library providing a JMS 2.0-like API for sending and receiving messages.
An Apache Camel component implementation supporting Camel's integration framework and Enterprise Integration Patterns, with no dependency on the Spring Framework. Support includes configurable consumers and producers including request/reply messaging and concurrent consumers.
A JMS 1.1 implementation layered on top of the core.
A STOMP server mapping all commands to the producers and consumers in the core. A Stomplet implementation enables use of non-Java clients to send and receive messages. Using the underlying clustering, a local STOMP server can be running on each node letting Hazelcast handle all network communication.
Yeti, A STOMP server and client framework built on Netty to ease building STOMP implementations for existing brokers. Yeti aims to provide fast and reusable STOMP frame codecs and channel handlers while abstracting away the underlying network IO.

Code examples are included in each module and in a separate examples module.
Hazelcast was introduced on InfoQ earlier this year.
STOMP is the Simple (or Streaming) Text Orientated Messaging Protocol, providing an interoperable wire format so that STOMP clients can communicate with any STOMP message broker enabling messaging interoperability over multiple languages and platforms.


Inspired by this content? Write for InfoQ.
Becoming an editor for InfoQ was one of the best decisions of my career. It has challenged me and helped me grow in so many ways. We'd love to have more people join our team.

Thomas BettsLead Editor, Software Architecture and Design @InfoQ; Senior Principal Engineer

Write for InfoQ












Rate this Article


Adoption










Style


































 Author Contacted










                
                
                    
                This content is in the Enterprise Architecture topic
            

Related Topics:


Development


Architecture & Design


Enterprise Integration Patterns


Integration Patterns


JMS


Patterns


Messaging


Java EE


Java


SOA


Architecture


Integration


Apache Camel


Hazelcast


Stomp


Enterprise Architecture










Related Editorial





Related Sponsored Content





                                Event Driven Microservices Architecture for IoT Solutions Using MQTT
                            






Related Sponsor




Reliable, scalable, secure, and flexible IoT Messaging platform trusted by more than 130 companies across industries. Learn more.









Related Content





Java News Roundup: OpenJDK, Spring Updates and CVEs, Payara Platform, Apache Tomcat Updates








Java News Roundup: JEPs for JDK 19, Project Lilliput Milestone, Spring Framework, Quarkus 2.9.0








Java News Roundup: JEPs for Projects Loom and Panama, JobRunr 5.1.0, Kotlin 1.7.0 Preview








Java News Roundup: JEP Updates for JDK 19, Project Loom, MicroStream 7.0, New Relic Java Survey








HashiCorp Vault Improves Eventual Consistency with Server-Side Consistent Tokens








Microsoft Announces the General Availability of Azure Container Apps at Build 2022








Machine Learning at the Edge











How Getting Feedback from Angry Users Helps to Develop Better Products








JEP 405: Record Classes to Extend Pattern Matching in Java








Cloudflare D1 Provides Distributed SQLite for Cloudflare Workers








Amazon Releases 51-Language AI Training Dataset MASSIVE








How to Run Your Product Department Like a Coach











Kalix: Build Serverless Cloud-Native Business-Crtical Applications with No Databases








Google Jetpack Brings Updated Architectural and UI Components and Improved Performance Tools








Microsoft Releases Azure DNS Private Resolver in Public Preview








Amazon EC2 Supports NitroTPM and UEFI Secure Boot








Architecting for the Edge











Google Cloud Introduces PostgreSQL-Compatible AlloyDB for Enterprise Database Workloads








AI for Software Developers: a Future or a New Reality?











Adaptability by Agreement: Valuing Outcomes over Imposed Solutions











AWS Lambda Now Has Support for Node.js 16 Runtime








Effectively Monitoring Your Monitoring - Miedwar Meshbesher on Using Vigilance Controls








Meta AI’s New Data Set to Accelerate Renewable Energy Catalyst Discovery for Hydrogen Fuel








DeepMind Introduces Gato, a New Generalist AI Agent








Mammoths Stumping in the Cloud Era: Meeting EU Regulations by Being Cloud Native and Cloud Agnostic








Go Native with Spring Boot and GraalVM











Dealing with Thundering Herd at Braintree








How Norway's Largest Bureaucracy Optimises for Fast Flow








How to Prepare for the Unexpected: an InfluxData Outage Story Told at KubeConEU 22








The What and Why of Programmable Proxies











State of the Java Ecosystem Report from New Relic








Microsoft + Java = ♡:  a Story Told by Martijn Verburg at Devoxx UK








Trust-Driven Development: Building Cognitive and Emotional Pillars








LAION Releases Five Billion Image-Text Pair Dataset LAION-5B








Why You Should Care about Software Architecture











MicroStream 7.0 Delivers Support for CDI








Flutter 3 Now Stable on All Supported Platforms, Extends Material Design 3








Connecting Goals to Daily Teamwork











The Future of Java as Seen by Mark Little at Devoxx UK 22: Native Java, Adoptium and Faster Pace








AWS Introduces Storage-Optimized I4i Instances for IO-Heavy Workloads








The InfoQ Newsletter


        A round-up of last week’s content on InfoQ sent out every Tuesday. Join a community of over 250,000 senior developers.

        

			View an example




Enter your e-mail address








Select your country

Select a country





I consent to InfoQ.com handling my data as explained in this Privacy Notice.





We protect your privacy.

















Hello stranger!
You need to Register an InfoQ account or  Login or login to post comments. But there's so much more behind being registered.
Get the most out of the InfoQ experience.





Tell us what you think







Allowed html: a,b,br,blockquote,i,li,pre,u,ul,p





 Email me replies to any of my messages in this thread
                            










Community comments


Watch thread




More info on HazelcastMQ
by Andrea  Echstenkamper, 







More info on HazelcastMQ
by
                                        Andrea  Echstenkamper,
                                        


Your message is awaiting moderation. Thank you for participating in the discussion.
HazelcastMQ Webinar with Mike Pilone: hazelcast.com/resources/use-hazelcastmq-flexibl...


Like
Reply


Back to top












Close





Your Reply


Quote original message








Allowed html: a,b,br,blockquote,i,li,pre,u,ul,p





 Email me replies to any of my messages in this thread
                    






                        Cancel
                    






Close





Your Reply








Allowed html: a,b,br,blockquote,i,li,pre,u,ul,p





 Email me replies to any of my messages in this thread
                    







                        Cancel
                    






Close




                   OK
                



1 












Development




How to Prepare for the Unexpected: an InfluxData Outage Story Told at KubeConEU 22


Reproducible Development with Containers


Green Software Development: Terminology and Climate Commitments Explained by Microsoft at Devoxx UK






Architecture & Design




Oren Eini on RavenDB, including Consistency Guarantees and C# as the Implementation Language


Kalix: Build Serverless Cloud-Native Business-Crtical Applications with No Databases


Architecting for the Edge






Culture & Methods




How Getting Feedback from Angry Users Helps to Develop Better Products


How to Run Your Product Department Like a Coach


Building a Culture of Accountability and Curiosity






AI, ML & Data Engineering




Machine Learning at the Edge


Amazon Releases 51-Language AI Training Dataset MASSIVE


AI for Software Developers: a Future or a New Reality?






DevOps




HashiCorp Vault Improves Eventual Consistency with Server-Side Consistent Tokens


Cloudflare D1 Provides Distributed SQLite for Cloudflare Workers


Effectively Monitoring Your Monitoring - Miedwar Meshbesher on Using Vigilance Controls












The InfoQ Newsletter
	
A round-up of last week’s content on InfoQ sent out every Tuesday. Join a community of over 250,000 senior developers.
		
			View an example


Get a quick overview of content published on a variety of innovator and early adopter technologies
Learn what you don’t know that you don’t know
Stay up to date with the latest information from the topics you are interested in




Enter your e-mail address








Select your country

Select a country





I consent to InfoQ.com handling my data as explained in this Privacy Notice.





We protect your privacy.








QCon Software Development Conference 



Real-world technical talks. No product pitches.Practical ideas to inspire you and your team.QCon San Francisco - Oct 24-28, In-person.QCon San Francisco brings together the world's most innovative senior software engineers across multiple domains to share their real-world implementation of emerging trends and practices.Uncover emerging software trends and practices to solve your complex engineering challenges, without the product pitches.Save your spot now








Home
Create account
Login
QCon Conferences
Events
Contribute
InfoQ Editors
About InfoQ
About C4Media

            Media Kit
        
InfoQ Developer Marketing Blog
Diversity



Events




InfoQ Live

JUNE 21, 2022





InfoQ Live

JULY 19, 2022





							InfoQ Live
							
AUGUST 23, 2022





QCon San Francisco

OCTOBER 24-28, 2022





								QCon Plus
							
NOVEMBER 29 - DECEMBER 9, 2022





Follow us on 

Youtube212K Followers
Linkedin18K Followers
RSS19K Readers
Twitter50k Followers
Facebook20K Likes
AlexaNew



Stay in the know

The InfoQ Podcast
Engineering Culture Podcast
The Software Architects' Newsletter









						General Feedback
						feedback@infoq.com


						Advertising
						sales@infoq.com


						Editorial
						editors@infoq.com


						Marketing
						marketing@infoq.com




InfoQ.com and all content copyright © 2006-2022 C4Media Inc. InfoQ.com hosted at Contegix, the best ISP we've ever worked with.
Privacy Notice, Terms And Conditions, Cookie Policy








BT














