








Integrating Dell Boomi with RabbitMQ













































































Home
Contact us
 


















Integrating Dell Boomi with RabbitMQ





Home Simplifying IT for Customers & Partners Middleware Dell Boomi Integrating Dell Boomi with RabbitMQ









July 17, 2019















RabbitMQ is an excellent queuing tool that can run on a variety of platforms. If you are planning on doing any asynchronous or distributed processing and you need a system to queue and process items in the backend, then you should consider RabbitMQ. This blog details the procedure to integrate RabbitMQ with Dell Boomi which is an iPaaS solution to fast track your digital transformation initiatives.How to Integrate Message Queueing in Dell Boomi with RabbitMQ? 
To install RabbitMQ, the below software needs to be installed.
ERLANG
RabbitMQ Software

ERLANG Installation
RabbitMQ runs on the Erlang virtual run-time. Hence need to install Erlang first as without it we can't get RabbitMQ to work. After installation, make sure that the correct environment variable (ERLANG_HOME) has been created during the installation. In case, the environment variable is missing, you may need to create it manually.RabbitMQ Service Installation
Download and install the latest RabbitMQ.RabbitMQ Web Management Plugin Installation
To access RabbitMQ web management portal following commands needs to be executed.
rabbitmq-service.bat stop

Open a command line 
Navigate to the sbin directory of RabbitMQ Server. In my case path is “C:\Program Files\RabbitMQ Server\rabbitmq_server-3.7.14\sbin”
Run the following command and enable the plugin 

rabbitmq-plugins.bat to enable rabbitmq_management console


rabbitmq-service.bat start 

After performing the above necessary steps navigate to http://localhost:15672/mgmt which takes to the below mentioned page.

Figure 1: RabbitMQ Login pageThe default credentials are as below,
Username: guest


password: guest

After a successful login, the following page will be accessible
Figure 2: RabbitMQ Main PageWe need to perform the below tasks to integrate the RabbitMQ with Dell Boomi.Exchange Creation
Queue Creation

Exchange Creation
Below are the properties should be given while creating an exchange.
Queue Creation
Below are the properties should be given while creating a queue.
Binding Exchange to Queue
To pass the message from exchange to queue, we need to bind them together by creating a routing key. By this way, we can define which queue should receive a message from which exchange.
Boomi Process Workflow
Below is the process which performs the RabbitMQ integration with Dell Boomi. It receives the message from the disk directory and passes the information to a couple of queues based on the exchange configuration given at connector operation.
The first branch receives the message and directly send the same message to a single queue which is directly bound with an exchange.
The second branch sends the message to two different queues which got bound to the same exchange and same routing key.
The below are the Dell Boomi connector and operation configuration at Dell Boomi connector level to integrate with RabbitMQ.

Once after the successful execution of the above Dell Boomi process messages are placed in different queues as highlighted below. The same can be viewed using the management console.
Figure 3: Queue configuration with messagesWe can navigate to the corresponding queue name in the list and can view the processed messages as shown below. That will have detailed information about the exact transaction.
Royal Cyber, being one of the Dell Boomi global certified system integrator, helps customers to get the most out of their Boomi platform by providing the best integration practices to build a connected business and drive digital transformation. For more information, you can email us at [email protected] or visit www.royalcyber.com. 













Related postsFebruary 21, 20213 Steps to Gain Maximum Value from Your APIsRead moreDecember 29, 2020Drive Self-Service with MuleSoft AnyPoint PlatformRead moreNovember 26, 2020Boost Sales this Holiday Season using MuleSoftRead more







Leave a Reply Cancel reply



















Industries


Retail Industry
Healthcare Industry
Travel Industry
Automotive Industry
Banking & Finance Industry
Core Services

Google Cloud Platform
SAP Commerce Cloud
Salesforce
commercetools
Robotic Process Automation
Innovations

3D Product Customization
Monitor Pro for Supply Chain
Transaction Pro
AIagentBot
Test Automation Framework
Quick Inquiry

 














Subscribe for Newsletter







© 2022 Royal Cyber Blog. All Rights Reserved. 











 










 

 






 


By continuing to use this website, you agree to our cookie policy. Accept Cookies Privacy Policy 



























