








Performance vs. Scalability | Dynatrace news










































































Platform





Supported Technologies




Infrastructure Monitoring




Applications & Microservices




Application Security




Digital Experience




Business Analytics




Cloud Automation











Solutions





AWS




Azure




Google




Kubernetes




OpenShift




ServiceNow




VMware Tanzu




U.S. Government











Resources





Customer Stories




Product News




Blog




Demos




Webinars




Podcasts











Services & Support





Dynatrace ONE




ACE Services




Business Insights




Dynatrace University




Support Center




Documentation




Dynatrace Community











Pricing




About





Newsroom




Careers




Partners




Leadership




Investor Relations




ESG




Events




Locations




Contact











      SaaS login
  

        Free trial
  

    Search
  

    Home
  



























































Performance vs. Scalability
























Alois Reitbauer



DevOps 

  September 11, 2008







Share blog post

























When people talk about performance and scalability they very often use these two word synonymously. However they mean different things. As there is a lot of misunderstanding on that topic, I thought it makes sense to have a blog post on it.
One of the best explanations can be found here.  It is a nice explanation by Werner Vogels the CTO of amazon.  I think everybody agrees that he knows what he is talking about.
Performance refers to the capability of a system to provide a certain response time. server a defined number of users or process a certain amount of data.  So performance is a software quality metric.  Unlike to what many people think it is not vage, but can be defined in numbers.
If we realize that our performance requirements change (e.g. we have to serve more users, we have to provide lower response times) or we cannot meet our performance goals, scalability comes into play.
Scalability referes to the characteristic of a system to increase performance by adding additional ressources. Very often people think that there system are scalabable out-of-the-box. “If we need to serve more users, we just add additional server” is a typical answer for performance problems.
However this assumes that the system is scalable, meaning adding additional resources really helps to improve performance.  Whether your system is scalable or not depends on your architecture.  Software systems not having scalability as a design goal often do not provide good scalabilty.  This InfoQ interview with Cameron Purdy – VP of Development in Oracle’s Fusion Middleware group and former Tangosol CEO – provides a good example on limited scalability of a system.  There are also two nice artilces by Sun’s Wang Yu on Vertical and Horizontal Scalabilty.
So how does this relate to Dynatrace.  With Lifecycle APM we defined an approach how to ensure performance and scalability over the application lifecycle – from development to production.  We work with our customers to make performance management part of their software processes going beyond performance testing and firefighting when there are problems in production.
As scalabilty problem are in nearly all cases architectural problems, these charateristcs have to be tested already in the development phase. Dynatrace provides means to integrate and automate performance management in your Continuous Integration Environments.
When I talk to people I sometimes get the feedback “… isn’t that premature optimization” (have a look at the cool image on premature optimization in K. Scott Allen’s Blog). This is a strong misconception. Premature optimization would mean that we always try to do performance optimization whenever and wherever we can.  Lifecycle APM and Continuous Performance Management as the development part of it, targets to get all information to always know about the scalabilty and performance characteristcs of your application. This serves as a basis for deciding when and where to optimize; actually avoiding premature optimization in the wrong direction.
Concluding we can say that if we want our systems to be scalable we have to take this into consideration right from the beginning of development and also monitor throuhout the lifecycle.  If we have to ensure it, we have to monitor it. This means that performance management must then treated equally relevant than the management of functional requirements.




#apm
Lifecycle
Lifecycle / DevOps
Performance



You liked this article? Feel free to share:























 









Alois Reitbauer






The Author

      Alois is Chief Technology Strategist of Dynatrace. He is fanatic about monitoring, DevOps and application performance. He spent most of his professional career in building monitoring tools and speeding up applications. He is a regular conference speaker, blogger, book author and Sushi maniac.
    

 















Looking for answers?

Start a new discussion or ask for help in our Q&A forum.
Go to forum


Disclaimer: The views expressed on this blog are my own and do not reflect the views of Dynatrace LLC or its affiliates.



  You may also like
 











          What are SLOs? How service-level objectives work with SLIs to deliver on SLAs
        



              December 2, 2021
            



      Saif Gunja
    
























Stay updated






        RSS feed
      







All updates

Blog posts

Product news



Enter your email address: 










X

    Calling all digital gamechangers:
  

    Watch every session from Dynatrace Perform on-demand for free.
  

    Watch on-demand >
  






Overview


Pricing


Supported technologies


Application Performance Monitoring (APM)


Infrastructure Monitoring


Cloud Automation


Application Security


Digital Experience


AIOps


Automated


Full stack


Davis, AI-engine




Overview


Cloud operations


Microservices


Container monitoring


DevOps


Observability


Cloud monitoring


Application monitoring


Davis Assistant




Overview


Blog


Demos


Webinars & Events


Customer stories


Podcasts


Free trial


Request demo




Overview


Dynatrace ONE


Software Intelligence Hub


Expert Services


University


Support Center


Product news


Documentation


Community




Overview


Leadership


Investor Relations


News


Media kit


Careers


Partners


Locations


ESG


Contact us


Legal disclosure






            Trust Center
      



            Dynatrace status
      



            Policies
      



            Terms of use
      



            Sitemap
      






Facebook







Twitter







Instagram







LinkedIn








YouTube







Glassdoor






    Home
  
Cookies

    © {currentYear} Dynatrace LLC. All rights reserved.
  









