






















Top 6 Best Scraping Tools to collect data from a webpage - Scraping-bot.io

















































Toggle navigation











API Store 

Raw HTML
Retail
Real Estate
Search Engine
TikTok API
Instagram API
Facebook API
Twitter API
LinkedIn API
Prestashop Module
Campsites Price Monitoring


Pricing
Documentation
Blog
Contact us
Register
Login
 





 


Top 6 Best Scraping Tools to collect data from a webpage 







 
Posted by team on 20 October 2021 | Featured 


Web scraping might seem easy at first glance. There are numerous open-source libraries/frameworks, scraping tools, scraping api, and extraction tools are great time savers for your need to collect data. But when you want to extensively scrape and collect data you may find that it can have its limits and become very expensive so it might be worth comparing a little ! 

Here is our TOP 6 Best Scraping Tools to collect data from a webpage

1 • ScrapingBot
Scraping Bot is a great tool for web developers who need to scrape data from a URL, it works particularly well on product pages where it collects all you need to know (image, product title, product price, product description, stock, delivery costs etc..). It is a great tool for those who need to collect commerce data or simply aggregate product data and keep it accurate.ScrapingBot also offers several APIs specializing in various fields such as real estate, Google search results or data collection on social networks (LinkedIn, Instagram, Facebook, Twitter, TikTok).

Features :
Headless chrome
Response time
Concurrent requests
Allows for large bulk scraping needs.

Pricing :

Free to test out with 100 credits every month. Then first package at 39€, 99€, 299€ then 699€ per month. You can test live by pasting a URL and get the results straight away to see if it works.

Link: https://www.scraping-bot.io/

2 • Octoparse
Interesting tool for those who are not developers. Allows you to scrape web data without having to do any coding. You point and click and it extracts the data directly onto a spread sheet. You click to select what you want to collect and then you get the data already sorted (csv, excel or api)

Features :
The tool provides support to mimics a human user while visiting and scraping  data from the specific websites
Ad Blocking feature to extract data and filter out the ads on a page 
Works on cloud or from your machine
Many export formats for your scraped data in TXT, HTML CSV, or Excel 

Pricing: 
There is a free version for up to 10 000 records and then from 75$ per month up to 399$ for more large scale data extraction

Link: https://www.octoparse.com/

3 • Import.io
This web scraping tool helps you to form your
datasets by importing the data from a specific web page and exporting the data
to CSV. It allows you to Integrate data into applications using APIs and
webhooks. 

Features: 
- Store and access data scraped straight from their cloud
- Data extraction Scheduling feature 
Automate and schedule interactions and workflows
Easy interaction with web forms/logins

Pricing: 
There is a free version for up to 10 000 records and then from 75$ per month up to 399$ for more large scale data extraction

Link: http://www.import.io/ 

4 • Apify
Apify
runs headless Chrome scraping in the cloud. You can schedule jobs using a
cron-like service and store large amounts of data in specialized storages. They
limit in time the data retention according to the package you are on share data
proxies.

Features :
Pool of datacenter or residential IP addresses
Specialized queries for Google Search result pages (SERPs).
Headless Chrome and Puppeteer

Pricing : 
They have a free version that you can use to run a couple of tests but you are quickly limited and you need to move on to a paying package from 49$ to 499$ per month. The free package allows you to crawl about 4000 JavaScript-enabled web pages using headless Chrome.

Link : https://apify.com/

5 • Diffbot
Diffbot allows you to get
various type of useful data from the web without the hassle. You don't need to
pay the expense of costly web scraping or doing manual research. The tool will
enable you to exact structured data from any URL with AI extractors. 

Features: 
Offers multiple sources of data form a complete, accurate picture of every entity
Provides support to extract structured data from any URL with AI Extractors
Helps you to scale up your extraction to 10,000s of domains 
Knowledge Graph feature allows accurate, and deep data from the web  to produce insights

Pricing : 
After a 14 days trial you must get onto one of their packages from 299$ up to 3999$ per month. Dynamic IPs are only on the most expensive package.
Link : http://www.diffbot.com 

6 • ScrapeStorm
ScrapeStorm is an AI-powered visual web scraping tool, which can be used to extract data from almost any website without writing any code. Its desktop app is powerful and very easy to use. You only need to enter the URLs, it can intelligently identify the content and next page button.

Features: 
IP Rotation and Verification Code Identification
Scheduled task
Data Processing and Deduplication
 RESTful API and Webhook

Pricing : 
The first plan is free and allows you to run 10 tasks. You can also upgrade to 100 tasks and 2 concurrent local run for $49,99, or unlimited tasks and concurrent runs for $99,99. 

Link : https://www.scrapestorm.com/



⬇️ If you want to get tips on scraping check out this article ⬇️
How to avoid getting blocked when scraping 


Tags: web-scraping




		  Comments are closed.	  



 








 Best web scraping APIs to extract HTML content without getting blocked.

 


 




Open Support Request 




Be Social

 





Last Posts


4 Things You Need To Know About Web Automation
10 January 2022


Top 7 Web Scraping Tips
14 December 2021


Top 5 Best Proxy Providers for Web Scraping
3 November 2021


 






ScrapingBot, a Panora Soft solution - Terms and conditions






We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies.Cookie settingsACCEPTREJECT ALLPrivacy & Cookies Policy




Close






Privacy Overview 
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.

 





								Necessary							


Necessary

Always Enabled




									Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.								






								Non-necessary							


Non-necessary





									Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.								












SAVE & ACCEPT




















