





15+ Best ETL Tools Available in the Market in 2022







































































Skip to content 












 



Software Testing Help


 







 
Menu 
MENUMENUHomeResourcesFREE eBooksQA Testing





Free QA TrainingTest CasesSDLCTestLink 


Software TestingBugZillaMobile TestingJIRA 


Agile MethodologyDatabase TestingETL Testing 


Quality AssuranceTest ManagementSAP ERP Testing 
 

Courses





Software Testing (LIVE Course)Selenium (LIVE Course) 


Software TestingSeleniumQTP/UFTJIRA VideosRuby Cucumber 
 

Automation





Automation TestingSoapUIJIRAAppiumKarate Framework 


SeleniumQTP/UFTALM QCPostman 


JMeterLoadRunnerAPI TestingRobot Framework 


TestNGJUnitEclipseMaven 
 

Types Of Testing





All Testing TypesRegression TestingUnit TestingSmoke Testing 


Functional TestingIntegration TestingSystem TestingUsability Testing 


UAT TestingBeta TestingBlack Box TestingWhite Box testing 


Load TestingStress TestingSecurity TestingPerformance Testing 
 

Tutorials





C++C#DevOpsVBScriptTeam ManagementComputer NetworkingJest 


PythonJAVAUNIXSVNAngularJSSpockLaravel 


SpecFlowJSONFlaskSOAtestMockitoKarma 


Machine LearningBlockchainGitHubGatlingWiremock 
 

Data





OraclePL/SQL 


Data WarehouseExcel VBA 


Big DataJDBC 


MongoDB 
 

 




Menu 
MENUMENUHomeResourcesFREE eBooksQA Testing





Free QA TrainingTest CasesSDLCTestLink 


Software TestingBugZillaMobile TestingJIRA 


Agile MethodologyDatabase TestingETL Testing 


Quality AssuranceTest ManagementSAP ERP Testing 
 

Courses





Software Testing (LIVE Course)Selenium (LIVE Course) 


Software TestingSeleniumQTP/UFTJIRA VideosRuby Cucumber 
 

Automation





Automation TestingSoapUIJIRAAppiumKarate Framework 


SeleniumQTP/UFTALM QCPostman 


JMeterLoadRunnerAPI TestingRobot Framework 


TestNGJUnitEclipseMaven 
 

Types Of Testing





All Testing TypesRegression TestingUnit TestingSmoke Testing 


Functional TestingIntegration TestingSystem TestingUsability Testing 


UAT TestingBeta TestingBlack Box TestingWhite Box testing 


Load TestingStress TestingSecurity TestingPerformance Testing 
 

Tutorials





C++C#DevOpsVBScriptTeam ManagementComputer NetworkingJest 


PythonJAVAUNIXSVNAngularJSSpockLaravel 


SpecFlowJSONFlaskSOAtestMockitoKarma 


Machine LearningBlockchainGitHubGatlingWiremock 
 

Data





OraclePL/SQL 


Data WarehouseExcel VBA 


Big DataJDBC 


MongoDB 
 

 








15 Best ETL Tools in 2022 (A Complete Updated List) 

Last Updated:May 6, 2022 






List Of The Best Open Source ETL Tools With Detailed Comparison:
ETL stands for Extract, Transform and Load. It is the process in which the Data is extracted from any data sources and transformed into a proper format for storing and future reference purposes.
Finally, this data is loaded into the database. In the current technology era, the word ‘data’ is very crucial as most of the business is run around this data, data flow, data format, etc. Modern applications and working methodology require real-time data for processing purposes and in order to satisfy this purpose, there are various ETL tools available in the market.

Using such databases and ETL tools makes the data management task much easier and simultaneously improves data warehousing.
ETL platforms that are available in the market save money as well as time to a great extent. Some of them are commercial, licensed tools and few are open-source free tools.





In this article, we will take an in-depth look at the most popular ETL tools that are available in the market.

=>> Contact us to suggest a listing here.
What You Will Learn:Most Popular ETL Tools in the MarketHevo – Recommended ETL Tool#1) Integrate.io#2) Skyvia#3) IRI Voracity#4) Xtract.io#5) Dataddo#6) DBConvert Studio By SLOTIX s.r.o. #7) Informatica – PowerCenter#8) IBM – Infosphere Information Server#9) Oracle Data Integrator#10) Microsoft – SQL Server Integrated Services (SSIS)#11) Ab Initio#12) Talend – Talend Open Studio for Data Integration#13) CloverDX Data Integration Software#14) Pentaho Data Integration#15) Apache Nifi#16) SAS – Data Integration Studio#17) SAP – BusinessObjects Data Integrator#18) Oracle Warehouse Builder#19) Sybase ETL#20) DBSoftlab#21) JasperConclusionRecommended Reading
Most Popular ETL Tools in the Market
Given below is the list of the best open source and commercial ETL software systems with the comparison details.
Hevo – Recommended ETL Tool
Hevo, a No-code Data Pipeline platform can help you move data from any source (Databases, Cloud Applications, SDKs, and Streaming) to any destination in real-time.

Key Features:

Easy Implementation: Hevo can be set up and run in just a few minutes.
Automatic Schema Detection and Mapping: Hevo’s powerful algorithms can detect the schema of incoming data and replicate the same in the data warehouse without any manual intervention.
Real-time Architecture: Hevo is built on a real-time streaming architecture which ensures that the data is loaded to your warehouse in real-time.
ETL and ELT: Hevo has powerful features that allow you to clean, transform, and enrich your data both before and after moving it to the warehouse. This ensures you always have analysis-ready data.
Enterprise-grade Security: Hevo is GDPR, SOC II, and HIPAA compliant.
Alerts and Monitoring: Hevo provides detailed alerts and granular monitoring set up so that you are always on top of your data.

=> Visit Hevo Website Here

#1) Integrate.io

Integrate.io is a Data Warehouse Integration Platform designed for e-commerce. Integrate.io helps e-commerce companies build a customer 360 view, generating a single source of truth for data-driven decisions, improving customer insights through better operational insights, and increasing ROI.

Features:


Powerful, low-code data transformation offering.
Pull in data from any source that has a RestAPI. If no RestAPI exists, then you can create your own with Integrate.io’s API Generator.
Send data to databases, on-prem, data warehouses, NetSuite, and Salesforce.
Integrate.io connects to all major E-commerce providers such as Shopify, NetSuite, BigCommerce, and Magento.
Meet all compliance requirements with security features like: field-level data encryption, SOC II certification, GDPR compliance, and data masking.
Integrate.io prioritizes customer support and customer feedback.

=> Visit Integrate.io Website


#2) Skyvia

Skyvia is a cloud data platform for no-coding data integration, backup, management and access, developed by Devart. Devart company is a well-known and trusted provider of data access solutions, database tools, development tools, and other software products with over 40 000 grateful customers in two R&D departments.
Skyvia includes an ETL solution for various data integration scenarios with support for CSV files, databases (SQL Server, Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL), cloud data warehouses (Amazon Redshift, Google BigQuery), and cloud applications (Salesforce, HubSpot, Dynamics CRM, and many others).
It also includes a cloud data backup tool, online SQL client, and OData server-as-a-service solution.
Key Features:

Skyvia is a commercial, subscription-based cloud solution free plans available.
Wizard-based, no-coding integration configuration does not require much technical knowledge.
Advanced mapping settings with constants, lookups, and powerful expressions for data transformations.
Integration automation by schedule.
Ability to preserve source data relations in target.
Import without duplicates.
Bi-directional synchronization.
Predefined templates for common integration cases.

=> Visit Skyvia official website here

#3) IRI Voracity

Voracity is an on-premise and cloud-enabled ETL and data management platform best known for the ‘affordable speed-in-volume’ value of its underlying CoSort engine, and for the rich data discovery, integration, migration, governance, and analytics capabilities built-in, and on Eclipse.
Voracity supports hundreds of data sources, and feeds BI and visualization targets directly as a ‘production analytic platform.’
Voracity users can design real-time or batch operations that combine already-optimized E, T, and L operations or use the platform to “speed or leave” an existing ETL tool like Informatica for performance or pricing reasons. Voracity speed is close to Ab Initio, but its cost is close to Pentaho.

Key Features:

Diverse connectors for structured, semi- and unstructured data, static and streaming, legacy and modern, on-premise or cloud.
Task- and IO-consolidated data manipulations, including multiple transforms, data quality, and masking functions specified together.
Transformations powered by multi-threaded, resource-optimizing IRI CoSort engine or interchangeably in MR2, Spark, Spark Stream, Storm or Tez.
Simultaneous target definitions, including pre-sorted bulk loads, test tables, custom-formatted files, pipes and URLs, NoSQL collections, etc.
Data mappings and migrations can reformat endian, field, record, file, and table structures, add surrogate keys, etc.
Built-in wizards for ETL, subsetting, replication, change data capture, slowly changing dimensions, test data generation, etc.
Data cleansing functionality and rules to find, filter, unify, replace, validate, regulate, standardize, and synthesize values.
Same-pass reporting, wrangling (for Cognos, Qlik, R, Tableau, Spotfire, etc.), or integration with Splunk and KNIME for analytics.
Robust job design, scheduling, and deployment options, plus Git- and IAM-enabled metadata management.
Metadata compatibility with Erwin Mapping Manager (to convert legacy ETL jobs), and the Metadata Integration Model Bridge.

Voracity is not open source but is priced lower than Talend when multiple engines are needed. Its subscription prices include support, documentation, and unlimited clients and data sources, and there are perpetual and runtime licensing options available, too.
=> Learn About Voracity and Click for a Free Trial or Live Demo

#4) Xtract.io

Xtract.io offers an efficient and scalable data extraction solution that helps organizations transform unstructured data into structured data assets. It helps in extracting PDFs, documents, emails, web and internal systems quickly.
With sophisticated ML models along with human-in-the-loop, we help you extract meaningful data from any unstructured form for you to make informed business decisions and improve customer satisfaction.

Key Features:

Extracts critical data points like invoice number, date, purchase details from pdfs, emails, fax, social media, and more.
Automate the extraction process with preconfigured custom workflows.
Helps in taking investment decisions extracting critical financial data from PDFs, company filings, balance sheets, annual reports, and more.
Annotate and tag entities with ML models and NLP techniques.
Extract, enrich, and cleanse data automatically with bots
Extract real-time prices and product data for any number of SKUs from multiple Ecommerce sites.
Automate data extraction from emails and integrate them directly into your CRM, ERP, and SCM.
Analyze customer sentiments uncovering context-rich insights from social media, networking sites, and forums.
Extract data in bulk and produce them in easily available formats such as spreadsheets, excel, or CSV.
Increase data accessibility by extracting critical information lying across multiple data warehouses, applications, and content repositories.

=> Visit Xtract.io for a Free Demo

#5) Dataddo

Dataddo is a no-coding, cloud-based ETL platform that provides technical and non-technical users with fully flexible data integration – with a wide range of connectors and fully customizable metrics, Dataddo simplifies the process of creating data pipelines.
Dataddo fits into the data architecture you already have, fully adapting to your existing workflows. Its intuitive interface and simple set-up process lets you focus on integrating your data, while fully-managed APIs remove the need for constant pipeline maintenance.

Key Features:

Friendly for non-technical users with a simple user interface.
Can deploy data pipelines within minutes of account creation.
Flexibly plugs into users’ existing data stack.
No-maintenance: API changes managed by the Dataddo team.
New connectors can be added within 10 days from request.
Security: GDPR, SOC2, and ISO 27001 compliant.
Customizable attributes and metrics when creating sources.
Blending of data sources available within the Dataddo platform.
Central management system to track the status of all data pipelines simultaneously.

=> Visit Dataddo Website

#6) DBConvert Studio By SLOTIX s.r.o. 

DBConvert Studio Exclusive Discount: Get 20% off with coupon code “20OffSTH” in checkout.
DBConvert Studio is a data ETL solution for on-premise and cloud databases. It extracts, transforms, and loads data between various database formats as Oracle, MS SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MS FoxPro, SQLite, Firebird, MS Access, DB2, and Amazon RDS, Amazon Aurora, MS Azure SQL, Google Cloud cloud data.

Use GUI mode to tune migration settings and launch conversion or synchronization. Schedule running of saved jobs in command line mode.
First, DBConvert studio creates simultaneous connections to databases. Then a separate job is created for tracking the migration/replication process. Data can be migrated or synchronized in one or bi-directional way.
The copying of database structure and objects is possible with or without data. Each object can be reviewed and customized to prevent potential eventual errors.
Key Features:

DBConvert Studio is a commercially licensed tool.
A free trial is available for testing.
Automatic schema migration and Data type Mapping.
Wizard-based, no-coding manipulation is needed.
Automate sessions/jobs running via scheduler or command line.
Unidirectional synchronization
Bidirectional synchronization
Views and queries migration.
It creates migration and synchronization Logs to monitor the process.
It contains Bulk feature to migrate large databases.
It’s possible to enable/disable the conversion of every element as table, field, index, query/view.
Data validation is possible before the migration or synchronization process starts.

=> Exclusive DBConvert Studio 20% discount for STH Readers – Use coupon code “20OffSTH” during checkout

#7) Informatica – PowerCenter

Informatica is a leader in Enterprise Cloud Data Management with more than 500 global partners and more than 1 trillion transactions per month. It is a software Development Company that was found in 1993 with its headquarters in California, United States. It has a revenue of $1.05 billion and a total employee headcount of around 4,000.
PowerCenter is a product that was developed by Informatica for data integration. It supports the data integration lifecycle and delivers critical data and values to the business. PowerCenter supports a huge volume of data and any data type and any source for data integration.
Key Features:

PowerCenter is a commercially licensed tool.
It is a readily available tool and has easy training modules.
It supports data analysis, application migration and data warehousing.
PowerCenter connects various cloud applications and is hosted by Amazon Web Services and Microsoft Azure.
PowerCenter supports agile processes.
It can be integrated with other tools.
The automated result or data validation across development, testing and production environment.
A non-technical person can run and monitor jobs which in turn reduces the cost.

Visit the official site from here.

#8) IBM – Infosphere Information Server

IBM is a multinational Software Company found in 1911 with its headquarters in New York, U.S. and it has offices across more than 170 countries. It has a revenue of $79.91 billion as of 2016 and total employees currently working are 380,000.
Infosphere Information Server is a product by IBM that was developed in 2008. It is a leader in the data integration platform which helps to understand and deliver critical values to the business. It is mainly designed for Big Data companies and large-scale enterprises.
Key Features:

It is a commercially licensed tool.
Infosphere Information Server is an end to end data integration platform.
It can be integrated with Oracle, IBM DB2, and Hadoop System.
It supports SAP via various plug-ins.
It helps to improve data governance strategy.
It also helps to automate business processes for a more cost-saving purpose.
Real-time data integration across multiple systems for all data types.
Existing IBM’s licensed tool can be easily integrated with it.

Visit the official site from here.

#9) Oracle Data Integrator

Oracle is an American multinational company with its headquarters in California and was found in 1977. It has a revenue of $37.72 billion as of 2017 and a total employee headcount of 138,000.
Oracle Data Integrator (ODI) is a graphical environment to build and manage data integration. This product is suitable for large organizations which have frequent migration requirement. It is a comprehensive data integration platform which supports high volume data, SOA enabled data services.
Key Features:

Oracle Data Integrator is a commercial licensed RTL tool.
Improves user experience with the re-design of the flow-based interface.
It supports the declarative design approach for data transformation and integration process.
Faster and simpler development and maintenance.
It automatically identifies faulty data and recycles it before moving into the target application.
Oracle Data Integrator supports databases like IBM DB2, Teradata, Sybase, Netezza, Exadata, etc.
Unique E-LT architecture eliminates the need for the ETL server thereby resulting in cost saving.
It integrates with other Oracle products for processing and transforming data using existing RDBMS capabilities.

Visit the official site from here. 

#10) Microsoft – SQL Server Integrated Services (SSIS)

Microsoft Corporation is an American multinational company launched in 1975 based out of Washington. With a total employee headcount of 124,000, it has a revenue of $89.95 billion.
SSIS is a product by Microsoft and was developed for data migration. The data integration is much faster as the integration process and data transformation is processed in the memory. As it is the product of Microsoft, SSIS only supports Microsoft SQL Server.
Key Features:






SSIS is a commercially licensed tool.
SSIS import/export wizard helps to move data from source to destination.
It automates the maintenance of the SQL Server Database.
Drag and Drop user interface for editing SSIS packages.
Data transformation includes text files and other SQL server instances.
SSIS has an inbuilt scripting environment available for writing programming code.
It can be integrated with salesforce.com and CRM using plug-ins.
Debugging capabilities and easy error handling the flow.
SSIS can also be integrated with change control software like TFS, GitHub, etc.

Visit the official site from here. 

#11) Ab Initio

Ab Initio is an American private enterprise Software Company launched in 1995 based out of Massachusetts, USA. It has offices worldwide in the UK, Japan, France, Poland, Germany, Singapore, and Australia. Ab Initio is specialized in application integration and high volume data processing.
It contains six data processing products such as Co>Operating System, The Component Library, Graphical Development Environment, Enterprise Meta>Environment, Data Profiler, and Conduct>It. “Ab Initio Co>Operating System” is a GUI based ETL tool with a drag and drop feature.
Key Features:

Ab Initio is a commercially licensed tool and a most costlier tool in the market.
The basic features of Ab Initio are easy to learn.
Ab Initio Co>Operating system provides a general engine for data processing and communication between the rest of the tools.
Ab Initio products are provided on a user-friendly platform for parallel data processing applications.
The parallel processing gives capabilities to handle a large volume of data.
It supports Windows, Unix, Linux and Mainframe platforms.
It performs functionalities like batch processing, data analysis, data manipulation, etc.
Users who are using Ab Initio products have to maintain confidentiality by signing NDA.

Visit the official site from here. 

#12) Talend – Talend Open Studio for Data Integration

Talend is a US-based Software Company launched in 2005 with its headquarters in California, USA. It currently has a total employee count of around 600.
Talend Open Studio for Data Integration is the company’s first product which was introduced in 2006. It supports data warehousing, migration, and profiling. It is a data integration platform that supports data integration and monitoring. The company provides services for data integration, data management, data preparation, enterprise application integration, etc.
Key Features:

Talend is a free open source ETL tool.
It is the first commercial open source software vendor for data integration.
Over 900 inbuilt components for connecting various data sources.
Drag and drop interface.
Improves the productivity and time required for deployment are using GUI and inbuilt components.
Easily deployable in a cloud environment.
Data can be merged and transforms traditional and Big Data into Talend Open Studio.
The online user community is available for any technical support.

Visit the official site from here. 

#13) CloverDX Data Integration Software

CloverDX helps midsize to enterprise-level companies tackle the world’s toughest data management challenges.
The CloverDX Data Integration Platform gives organizations a robust, yet endlessly flexible environment designed for data-intensive operations, packed with advanced developer tools and scalable automation and orchestration backend.
 Founded in 2002, CloverDX now has a team of over 100 people, combining developers and consulting professionals across all verticals, operating worldwide to help companies dominate their data.
 Key Features:

CloverDX is a commercial ETL software.
CloverDX has a Java-based framework.
Easy to install and simple user interface.
Combines business data in a single format from various sources.
It supports Windows, Linux, Solaris, AIX and OSX platforms.
It is used for data transformation, data migration, data warehousing, and data cleansing.
Support is available from Clover developers.
It helps to create various reports using data from the source.
Rapid development using data and prototypes.

 Visit the official site from here. 

#14) Pentaho Data Integration

Pentaho is a Software Company that offers a product known as Pentaho Data Integration (PDI) and is also known as Kettle. It is headquartered in Florida, USA and offers services like data integration, Data mining, and STL capabilities. In 2015, Pentaho was acquired by Hitachi Data System.
Pentaho Data Integration enables the user to cleanse and prepare the data from various sources and allows the migration of data between applications. PDI is an open-source tool and is a part of the Pentaho business intelligent suite.
Key Features:

PDI is available for Enterprise and Community edition.
Enterprise platform has additional components which increase the capability of the Pentaho platform.
Easy to use and simple to learn and understand.
PDI follows the metadata approach for its implementation.
User-friendly graphical interface with drag and drop features.
ETL developers can create their own jobs.
The shared library simplifies the ETL execution and development process.

Visit the official site from here.

#15) Apache Nifi

Apache Nifi is a software project developed by Apache Software Foundation. Apache Software Foundation (ASF) was established in 1999 with its headquarters at Maryland, USA. The software developed by ASF is distributed under the Apache License and is a Free and Open Source Software.
Apache Nifi simplifies the data flow between various systems using automation. The data flows consist of processors and a user can create their own processors. These flows can be saved as templates and later can be integrated with more complex flows. These complex flows can then be deployed to multiple servers with minimal efforts.
Key Features:

Apache Nifi is an open-source software project.
Easy to use and is a powerful system for data flow.
Data flow includes the user to send, receive, transfer, filter and move data.
Flow-based programming and simple user interface supporting web-based applications.
GUI is customized based on specific needs.
End to end data flow tracking.
It supports HTTPS, SSL, SSH, multi-tenant authorization, etc.
Minimal manual intervention to build, update and remove various data flows.

Visit the official site from here. 

#16) SAS – Data Integration Studio

SAS Data Integration Studio is a graphical user interface to build and manage data integration processes.
The data source can be any applications or platforms for the integration process. It has a powerful transformation logic using which a developer can build, schedule, execute and monitor jobs.
Key Features:

It simplifies the execution and maintenance of the data integration process.
Easy to use and wizard-based interface.
SAS Data Integration Studio is a flexible and reliable tool to respond and overcome any data integration challenges.
It resolves issues with speed and efficiency which in turn reduces the cost of data integration.

Visit the official site from here. 

#17) SAP – BusinessObjects Data Integrator

BusinessObjects Data Integrator is data integration and ETL tool. It mainly consists of data integrator Job Servers and data integrator Designer. BusinessObjects Data Integration process is divided into – Data unification, Data profiling, Data auditing, and Data Cleansing.
Using SAP BusinessObjects Data Integrator, data can be extracted from any source and loaded into any data warehouse.
Key Features:

It helps to integrate and load data in the analytical environment.
Data Integrator is used to build Data Warehouses, Data Marts, etc.
Data Integrator web administrator is a web interface allowing to manage various repositories, metadata, web services, and job servers
It helps to schedule, execute and monitor batch jobs.
It supports Windows, Sun Solaris, AIX and Linux platforms.

Visit the official site from here.

#18) Oracle Warehouse Builder

Oracle has introduced an ETL tool known as Oracle Warehouse Builder (OWB). It is a graphical environment that is used to build and manage the data integration process.
OWB uses various data sources in the data warehouse for integration purposes. The core capability of OWB is data profiling, data cleansing, fully integrated data modeling, and data auditing. OWB uses an Oracle database to transform the data from various sources and is used to connect various other third-party databases.
Key Features:

OWB is a comprehensive and flexible tool for data integration strategy.
It allows a user to design and build the ETL processes.
It supports 40 metadata files from various vendors.
OWB supports Flat files, Sybase, SQL Server, Informix and Oracle Database as a target database.
OWB supports data types such as numeric, text, date, etc.

Visit the official site from here.  

#19) Sybase ETL

Sybase is a strong player in the data integration market. Sybase ETL tool is developed for loading data from different data sources and then transforming them into data sets and finally loading this data into the data warehouse.
Sybase ETL use sub-components such as Sybase ETL Server and Sybase ETL Development.
Key Features:

Sybase ETL provides automation for data integration.
Simple GUI to create data integration jobs.
Easy to understand and no separate training is required.
Sybase ETL dashboard provides a quick view of where exactly the processes stand.
Real-time reporting and better decision-making process.
It only supports the Windows platform.
It minimizes the cost, time and human efforts for data integration and extraction process.

Visit the official site from here. 

#20) DBSoftlab

DB Software Laboratory introduced an ETL tool which delivers end to end data integration solution to the world-class companies. DBSoftlab design products will help to automate the business processes.
Using this automated process a user will be able to view ETL processes at any time to get a view of where exactly it stands.
Key Features:

It is a commercially licensed ETL tool.
Easy to use and faster ETL tool.
It can work with Text, OLE DB, Oracle, SQL Server, XML, Excel, SQLite, MySQL, etc.
It extracts data from any data source such as an email.
End to End business automated process.

Visit the official site from here.

#21) Jasper

Jaspersoft is a leader in data integration which is launched in 1991 with its headquarters in California, United States. It extracts, transforms and loads data from various other sources into the data warehouse.
Jaspersoft is a part of the Jaspersoft Business Intelligent suite. Jaspersoft ETL is a data integration platform with high performing ETL capabilities.
Key Features:

Jaspersoft ETL is an open-source ETL tool.
It has an activity monitoring dashboard that helps to monitor the job execution and its performance.
It has connectivity to applications like SugarCRM, SAP, Salesforce.com, etc.
It also has connectivity to Big Data environment Hadoop, MongoDB, etc.
It provides a Graphical editor to view and edit the ETL processes.
Using GUI, allows the user to design, schedule and execute data movement, transformation, etc.
Real-time, an end to end process and ETL statistic tracking.
It is suitable for small and medium-sized businesses.

Visit the official site from here. 

#22) Improvado

Improvado is a data analytics software for marketers to help them keep all their data in one place. This marketing ETL platform will allow you to connect marketing API to any visualization tool and for that no need to have technical skills.
It has the capability to connect with more than 100 types of data sources. It provides a set of connectors to connect with data sources. You will be able to connect and manage these data sources through one platform in the cloud or on-premises.

Key Features:

It can provide raw or mapped data as per your requirements.
It has a facility of comparing cross-channel metrics to help you with business decisions.
It has functional to change attribution models.
It has features for mapping Google Analytics data with advertising data.
Data can be visualized in the Improvado dashboard or using the BI tool of your choice.


#23) Matillion

Matillion is a data transformation solution for cloud data warehouses. Matillion leverages the power of the cloud data warehouse to consolidate large data sets and quickly performs the necessary data transformations that make your data analytics-ready.
Our solution is purpose-built for Amazon Redshift, Snowflake, and Google BigQuery, to extract data from a wide number of sources, load it into a company’s chosen cloud data warehouse, and transform that data from its siloed state into useful, joined together, analytics-ready data at scale.

The product helps enterprises to achieve simplicity, speed, scale, and savings by unlocking the hidden potential of their data. Matillion’s software is used by more than 650 customers across 40 countries, including global enterprises like Bose, GE, Siemens, Fox, and Accenture, and other high-growth, data-centric companies like Vistaprint, Splunk, and Zapier.
The company was also recently named a 2019 Top Rated Award Winner in Data Integration by TrustRadius, which is based on unbiased feedback by way of customers’ user satisfaction scores alone. The company also has the highest-rated ETL product on the AWS Marketplace, with 90 percent of customers saying they would recommend Matillion.
Key Features:

Launch the product on your preferred cloud platform and start developing ETL jobs within minutes.
Load data from a variety of sources using 70+ connectors within minutes.
Low-code / no-code browser-based environment for visual orchestration of sophisticated workflows with transactions, decisions, and loops.
Design reusable, parameter-driven jobs.
Build self-documenting data transformation processes.
Schedule and review your ETL jobs.
Model your data for high performing BI/visualizations.
Pay-as-you-go billing.


Few others on the list:
#24) Information Builders – iWay Software
iWay DataMigrator is a powerful data integration tool and B2B integration tool which simplifies the ETL processes.
It retrieves the data from XML, Relational Database, and JSON. iWay Data-migrator runs on almost all platforms such as UNIX, Linux, and Windows. It also uses JDBC, ODBC connectivity to connect to various database accesses.
Visit the official site from here.
#25) Cognos Data Manager
IBM Cognos Data Manager is used to perform ETL processes and high-performance business intelligence.
It has a special feature of multilingual support using which it can create a global data integration platform. IBM Cognos Data Manager automates business processes and it supports Windows, UNIX, and Linux platforms.
Visit the official site from here. 
#26) QlikView Expressor
QlikView Expressor is simple and easy to understand the ETL tool. It is now integrated with Qlik. Qlik is metadata management and ETL tool.
It has three different versions – Free Desktop Edition, Standard Edition and Enterprise Edition. And QlikView Expressor consists of three components – Desktop, Data Integration Engine, and Repository.
Visit the official site from here. 
#27) Pervasive Data Integrator
Pervasive Data Integrator tool is an ETL tool. It helps to make a quick connection between any data source and application.
It is a robust data integration platform that supports real-time data exchange and data migration. The components used in the tool are reusable so that these components can be deployed any number of times.
Visit the official site from here. 
#28) Apache Airflow
Apache Airflow is in a premature status and it is supported by Apache Software Foundation (ASF).
Apache Airflow programmatically creates, schedules and monitors workflows. It can also modify the scheduler to run the jobs as and when required.
Visit the official site from here. 

Conclusion
So far we took an in-depth look at the various ETL tools that are available in the market. In the current market, ETL tools have significant value and they are very important to identify the simplified way of extraction, transformation and loading method.
Various tools that are available in the market will help you to get the job done but it depends upon the requirement.
Also read =>> Best Data Warehouse Automation Tools
Several companies are using the data warehouse concept and the combination of technology and analytics will lead to the continuous growth of the data warehouse, which in turn will increase the usage of ETL tools.
=>> Contact us to suggest a listing here.







Recommended Reading 

Best Software Testing Tools 2022 [QA Test Automation Tools]
10 Best Data Mapping Tools Useful in ETL Process [2022 LIST]
13 Best Data Migration Tools For Complete Data Integrity [2022 LIST]
Top 15 Best Free Data Mining Tools: The Most Comprehensive List
ETL Testing Data Warehouse Testing Tutorial (A Complete Guide)
10+ Best Data Collection Tools With Data Gathering Strategies
10 Best ETL Testing Tools in 2022 [TOP SELECTIVE]
Top 15 Big Data Tools (Big Data Analytics Tools) in 2022 
 






About SoftwareTestingHelpHelping our community since 2006!
Most popular portal for Software professionals with 100 million+ visits and 300,000+ followers! You will absolutely love our tutorials on QA Testing, Development, Software Tools and Services Reviews and more!






Recommended Reading 

Best Software Testing Tools 2022 [QA Test Automation Tools]


10 Best Data Mapping Tools Useful in ETL Process [2022 LIST]


13 Best Data Migration Tools For Complete Data Integrity [2022 LIST]


Top 15 Best Free Data Mining Tools: The Most Comprehensive List


ETL Testing Data Warehouse Testing Tutorial (A Complete Guide)


10+ Best Data Collection Tools With Data Gathering Strategies


10 Best ETL Testing Tools in 2022 [TOP SELECTIVE]


Top 15 Big Data Tools (Big Data Analytics Tools) in 2022


JOIN Our Team!


 







About us | Contact us | Advertise 
All articles are copyrighted and cannot be reproduced without permission.
© Copyright SoftwareTestingHelp 2022 — Read our  Copyright Policy | Privacy Policy | Terms | Cookie Policy | Affiliate Disclaimer



 











































