





































Amazon Recommends Fluentd as “Best Practice for Data Collection” over Flume and Scribe - Treasure Data Blog

















































































Learn

Overview
Why CDP
CDP Vendor Selection
Why Treasure Data
CDP vs DMP
CDP Academy
What is a CDP?
Customer Data Management


Solutions

Overview
CDP for Marketing
CDP for Service
CDP for Sales


Industries

Overview
Automotive
Retail
Financial Services
CPG
Entertainment & Media
Life Sciences


Customers
Platform

Overview
Technology
Consent and Privacy
Security
Treasure Boxes
Integrations
Open Source


Resources

Library
Case Studies
Guides & Cheatsheets
Whitepapers & Reports
Videos
Events & Webinars
CDP Academy
Documentation
API Developer Portal
CDP Training
Blog
Digital Shift OnDemand


Company

About Us
Press Releases
Partners
News
Careers


Request Demo


 

 


 


Amazon Recommends Fluentd as “Best Practice for Data Collection” over Flume and Scribe






Amazon Recommends Fluentd as “Best Practice for Data Collection” over Flume and Scribe
 Last modified:
                August 17, 2019                 











Amazon Recommends Fluentd as “Best Practice for Data Collection” over Flume and Scribe
Here is a guest blog on AWS about using Fluentd to build a unified logging layer

This month, Parviz Deyham from Amazon Web Service promoted Fluentd as the best data collection tool for Amazon Elastic MapReduce (EMR), a hosted Hadoop framework running on Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) and Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3). 



In the best practices whitepaper, Parviz, an Enterpise Solution Architect at AWS, notes that, "Fluentd is easier to install and maintain and has better documentation and support than Flume and Scribe." Collecting data in a scalable and reliable manner has an important place in big data architecture. Many big data analytics solutions fail to provide robust tools for data collection or require that developers write custom data collectors from the origin to the final collection point. 
While such attempts to write custom data collectors are important, users can leverage open source frameworks that have already been written to provide scalable and efficient distributed data collection. Open source software is part of our DNA at Treasure Data and we are thrilled that Parviz sees the value in a versatile and lightweight data collection tool like Fluentd to stream data efficiently to the cloud.
We would like to thank the entire Fluentd community for their dedication and contributions to making Fluentd a first class data collection tool. This recommendation from Amazon validates the philosophy and benefits of Fluentd's architecture, maintainability, and simplicity.


Get Treasure Data blogs, news, use cases, and platform capabilities.


 Treasure Data respects your privacy.

Thank you for subscribing to our blog!






  















 
 
              Kiyoto Tamura              

                Kiyoto began his career in quantitative finance before making a transition into the startup world. A math nerd turned software engineer turned developer marketer, he enjoys postmodern literature, statistics, and a good cup of coffee.              











 
Are you looking for a customer data platform that helps you optimize the customer experience? Treasure Data’s CDP brings all your enterprise data together for a single, actionable view of your customer. Learn more by clicking below:
Request A Demo

Search the blog


 Treasure Data 
Treasure Data Customer Data Platform (CDP) brings all your enterprise data together for a single, actionable view of your customer. Learn more by clicking below:
What is a Customer Data Platform (CDP)?
Why Enterprise CDP?
Why Treasure Data?



futurum-sbb

Explore Featured Posts

Treasure Data Named a Leader in the IDC MarketScape: Worldwide CDPs for Data and Marketing Operations Users 2022 Vendor AssessmentWhat’s a CDP? New Dummies Guide 2.0 Shows Enterprises How to Use Customer Data to Compete NOWTop 5 Customer Data Trends for 2022Treasure Data’s Trusted Foundation Helps Enterprises Navigate Privacy and Personalization ExpectationsHow CDPs Empower Empathy and Improve CLVThe Difference Between First-party, Second-party and Third-party DataAnswers to 7 FAQs on Data Privacy, Security and Identity Best Practices 


Browse categories

Automotive

CDP

CDP for Service

Company News

CPG

Customer Data

Customer Experience

Customers

Digital Transformation

Financial Services & Insurance

Horizontal/APAC

Horizontal/EMEA

Infographic

Integrations

Interviews

Martech

Partners

Perspective

Perspective EMEA

Privacy & Security

Product News

Retail

Technology

Webinars










 

Related Posts






                Treasure Data Named a Leader in the IDC MarketScape: Worldwide CDPs for Data and Marketing Operations Users 2022 Vendor Assessment                 
                Treasure Data Named a Leader in the IDC MarketScape: Worldwide CDPs for Data and Marketing Operations Users 2022 Vendor Assessment Customer Data Platforms are well-positioned to solve complex data challenges with actionable results across the entire organization. At a time...                 





                What’s a CDP? New Dummies Guide 2.0 Shows Enterprises How to Use Customer Data to Compete NOW                 
                How do businesses use CDPs to boost sales & customer loyalty? Wiley’s Dummies Guide to Enterprise Customer Data Platforms 2.0 includes new case studies on how Subaru, AB InBev, Stripe & PARCO use data to compete,                 





                Top 5 Customer Data Trends for 2022                 
                The top 5 hottest data-driven marketing trends of 2021 and 2022 include continuing interest in how customer data and CDPs help navigate turbulent times. Here’s what business leaders are thinking about as we move into 2022.                 













Privacy Policy | Cookie Policy


Copyright © 2022 Treasure Data, Inc. (or its affiliates). All rights reserved.










































The new table stakes for CPG? CDPs, says Futurum Research Learn why









