


Best 6 stock market APIs for 2022












Best 6 stock market APIs for 2022
Although the cost of servers and technology have gone down significantly in the past decade, cost of market data (stock API) keeps going up year after year. It's extremely challenging to find good and clean data for US markets and global markets. Below are a list of good stock API that we have curated at Columbia University and are widely used amongst member of our quant trading community.
6 best stock APIs

Finnhub Stock API
Morningstar stock API
Xignite API
Bloomberg API
Google sheet finance
Exegy

1. Finnhub.io Stock API

Coverage: Stock API with Global markets (60+ stock exchanges) data, forex, crypto
Historical market data coverage: 20+ years EOD , intraday data 
Tick data: 20 years 
Fundamental data: Global coverage of Company profile, 30+ years of financial statements, Analyst’s price target and recommendation, EPS/Sale surprises.
Alternative data: Earnings call transcripts, global M&A data
Stock API Access: REST API and Websocket 
Pricing : Free plan comes with 60 API calls/minute
Comment: Institutional-grade data with the most generous free plan. Finnhub is the most comprehensive instituional-grade stock API available for retail investors at this point.
I hope you found this guide helpful and our experience at Columbia university can help you find the most suitable API for your trading/research.
2. Morningstar stock API

Coverage: Stock API with Global markets (60+ stock exchanges) data, forex, crypto
Historical market data coverage: 20+ years EOD , intraday data 
Tick data: 20 years available for instituional only.
Fundamental data: Global coverage with 65,000 companies.
Comment: Awesome API. Morningstar stock API is powering some of the best companies out there.
3. Xignite stock API

Coverage: Stock API with Global markets (30+ stock exchanges) data, forex, crypto
Historical market data coverage: 20+ years EOD , intraday data 
Tick data: 20 years available for multiple markets
Fundamental data: Global coverage powered by Factset Fundamentals.
Comment: Enterprise-grade API. Xignite has big clients such as Robinhood and Stocktwits.
4. Bloomberg stock API
If you have access to a Bloomberg terminal, you can get ANY financial data you ever need out of this API. It's an amazing product with every data from historical price, tick data, to fundamentals, economic and alternative data
5. Google sheet finance
Only support last price plus a few metrics but has global coverage and is free!
6. Exegy
Reputable real-time market data provider with enterprise-grade feed. They have direct connection with exchanges, which make it suitable for HFT and applications sensitive to latency.
7. ValueInvesting.io Valuation API
This is an honorable mention for ValueInvesting.io API where you can obtain fair value of global stocks + pre-built DCF models readily available in an API. Here are a few examples of prebuilt WACC and DCF models:

AAPL DCF
NFLX (Netflix) DCF
MSFT DCF
TSLA DCF
MSFT WACC
NFLX (Netflix) WACC
FB WACC
NIO WACC

8. AlphaResearch SEC Filings Search API
If you are looking for API infrastructure to do full-text search for SEC Filings, earnings call transcripts, SEDAR and other global filings, AlphaResearch would be a great option for this. You can learn more here. Alpha Research is recommended as 1 of the best equity research platforms.
Here are a few examples of SEC Filings search capability available on AlphaResearch:

AAPL 10K
AAPL 10Q
TSLA 10K
TSLA 10Q
MSFT 10K
MSFT 10Q
NFLX 10K
NFLX 10Q
TSLA earnings call transcripts
SEC Filings
10-K
10Q
13F Filings
Form 8K
SEC Form 4






