





Best Stock Market APIs in 2020

































 Skip to main content Skip to primary sidebarQuantitative Investing & Data ScienceQuantitative Investing & Data ScienceBest Stock Market APIs in 2020
June 23, 2020 by QID Stock market APIs are the invisible pieces of software that connect financial market data to the downstream data users. As simple as it may seem at the first glance, not all stock APIs are created equal and there are certain important attributes that define a reliable data provider. In this article, we will take a look at 5 API providers that have established themselves in the industry.
Best Stock APIs in 2020

Alpha Vantage
Xignite
Polygon.io
IEX Cloud
EOD Historical Data

 
1. Alpha Vantage
Alpha Vantage offers freemium stock APIs in JSON, Google Sheets, and Excel. As a Y Combinator company, Alpha Vantage has added unique Silicon Valley engineering craftsmanship to their API offerings. Their API is well-documented and easily integrated with all major programming languages. On GitHub, there are close to 500 open-source repositories built on top of Alpha Vantage APIs (screenshot below), which means millions of rows of financial data is often just one pip install away.

Sample API Portfolio

Time series data (intraday, daily, weekly, and monthly) for stocks, ETFs, and mutual funds
Realtime and historical currency and cryptocurrency data
Secondary/derived data such as technical indicators (e.g., MACD, Bollinger Bands)

How to access

RESTful APIs
Microsoft Excel
Google Sheets

 
2. Xignite
Xignite is one of the pioneers of cloud-based access to the financial market. With big-name customers such as Robinhood and Wealthfront, Xignite primarily serves enterprises that need financial data to power their critical infrastructures. With such an enterprise focus, Xignite, unsurprisingly, doesn’t impose any rate limits on their APIs, which means you can pretty much hammer its platform with as many API calls as you can muster.
Sample API Portfolio

Stock quotes
ETFs and mutual funds data
Forex data
Futures and options
Indices and benchmarks
Fixed income
Fundamental data
Earnings
News

How to access

RESTful APIs
Excel plug-in 

 
3. Polygon.io
If you are looking for affordable yet low-latency access to realtime US market data, Polygon is a great option. It has 100% coverage of all the 10+ exchanges in the United States. As their servers are located in close proximity to some of the exchange datacenters in New York, Polygon’s realtime stock APIs can achieve up to nanosecond-level precision. Robinhood is a customer of Polygon, but I think their data infrastructure is also well suited for high-frequency trading scenarios.  

Sample API Portfolio

Realtime Level-1 and Level-2 stock data for ALL US exchanges
Historical stock market data
Realtime and historical data for over 1000 currency pairs
Realtime and historical data for cryptocurrencies across 8+ crypto exchanges
Reference data such as company financials

 How to access

RESTful API
Websocket streaming

 
4. IEX Cloud
If you are familiar with high-frequency trading and Micheal Lewis’ bestseller Flash Boys, you may know the Investors Exchange (IEX) already. IEX Cloud is the market data business of IEX, and it provides both IEX-native trading data and market information aggregated from external data sources. IEX Cloud has extensive API documentation, which makes software developers and investment professional feel at home the moment they land on the IEX Cloud website.
Sample API Portfolio

Realtime and historical stock market data
Forex and cryptocurrency data
Fundamental data
A rich set of alternative data such as news and social data

How to access

RESTful APIs
Data streaming

 
5. EOD Historical Data
Don’t let the company name fool you! EOD Historical Data offers much more than just end-of-day historical stock APIs. It has one of the most comprehensive fundamental data offerings in the market, covering 20+ years of fundamental data across 60+ global exchange. If your business or software application depends on high-quality fundamental data, EOD Historical Data is a great resource to look into.
Sample API Portfolio

20+ years of fundamental data covering 60+ global exchanges
Historical data for stocks, ETFs, mutual funds, forex, crypto, bonds, and more

How to access

RESTful APIs


Filed Under: API Primary SidebarSearch this website

Recent Posts


Best Stock Market APIs in 2020



Recent Comments

Archives

June 2020


Categories

API



Meta

Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.org

















