


















Decision criteria to select an integration middleware

















































 






























Skip to Main Content








Home


Initiatives                                            





Strategic




Integration Strategy                                        




Digital Agility                                        




Leveraging Data                                        




Merger & Acquisition                                        




Customer Experience                                        




Reducing Integration TCO                                        




Legacy Modernisation                                        




Business Automation                                        




Technical




Migrate Systems & Services                                        




Leveraging Cloud                                        




API Management                                        




API & Integration Security                                        




Infrastructure Automation & DevOps                                        




Identity & Access Management                                        




Process Automation




Joiners, Movers & Leavers                                        




Quote to Cash                                        




Source to Pay                                        




SaaS Integration






Salesforce                                        






Workday                                        






SAP                                        




Industry Specific




Banking and Finance                                        




Healthcare                                        




Telco                                        




Retail                                        











 


Initiatives
View all the initiatives Chakray can help your organisation succeed with


View the page 











 



Case Study



 
Miranza Group


Miranza Group improves customer experience with an integrated healthcare strategy thanks to Chakray.
Download Case Study 








Expertise                                            




Expertise
Explore the core integration capabilities Chakray can help provide to your organisation.
View the page 







API Management
Tools and capability to control and govern your API estate and the lifecycle of those APIs.








DevOps & CI/CD
Enables automated deployment, integration and infrastructure builds within an organisation.








iPaaS
A low code cloud based service for integration of on-premise and cloud/SaaS technologies.








IAM
Provides administrators with the ability to manage digital identities throughout their lifecycle.








Microservices
Services built around business capabilities with minimum centralised management.








Integration as a service
The provision of an integration or API solution as a complete end-to-end service.








Event Streaming
The capture and persistence of data events in real-time from numerous event sources.








ESB/SOA
Large implementations of service oriented enterprise integration patterns and services.









The Chakray Integration Framework
Find out more about the complete toolkit of integration
Download the ebook 






 


 







Technologies                                



Services                                



Implementation                                




More




Careers
About
Case Studies
Articles
EBooks



Contact 





en




English


Español











Home


Articles


Decision criteria to select an integration middleware


Decision criteria to select an integration middleware








 



What is a middleware?
A middleware is a software that can be found between the operating system and the applications running on that system. It works as a hidden translation layer that allows for the management and transfer of data between distributed applications.
A middleware offers an API to make the programming and handling of those applications easier. There are different types of middleware categories that address different issues. These two big categories are: integration and application. Without a middleware, each application over the operating system needs to be created based on the already-existing system, which is completely inflexible and inefficient.
-SOA: The perfect architecture to adapt to business needs-
List of criteria to choose your middleware
It is important for you to have clear criteria to compare the different types of middleware. In this way, you will generate trust and partiality to know which option is the one that best fits the needs of your company. Based on our experience, we know that the first question that will pop into your head will be whether to choose a proprietary solution or an open-source one. In order to make that decision, we recommend you to apply the following criteria:

Usability: ask yourself about the degree of complexity of the installation, the supplementary tools that you need and the type of usability of the development environment.
Maintainability: how is the product managed? Can you monitor the services by means of a graphical user interface?
Community: Is there content available for the platform? Are there active public forums?
Company support: Here you need to know whether the support service is provided during business hours, if it has a direct line, e-mail, on-site support, etc.
Functionality: types of features provided.
Flexibility: Is it possible to customize the product? Does it meet the company’s specific needs?
Expansion ability: What types of standards do the interfaces use? Does it have extensions?
Connectors: Are there available adapters for B2B products such as SAP or Salesforce?
Costs: Calculate the total cost of owning the product: maintenance, necessary auxiliary products, connectors, licenses, etc.
Licenses: Type of license and subscription model. Are updates free? Do they have alternatives when requirements change?

With these criteria, you are ready to prepare a good comparative report for your company’s executives and propose the different solutions the market has to offer. Once your research is complete, draw conclusions that estimate the needs your selected platform is addressing. Want to know which middleware is best for your company? Contact for free our experts!









Chakray






 

 

 

 
 





Subscribe to our newsletter
Enter your email address below to receive the latest articles, ebooks and newsletters from Chakray direct to your inbox!








Share



 

 

 

 
 





Contact our team to discuss your needs and find out how Chakray can help can help deliver your successful outcomes, talk to our experts!
Get in touch


Popular Articles


The four dimensions of a hybrid integration platform


Why All Organisations Must Prioritise Digital Agility In Response To Coronavirus


What are microservices?: Definition, characteristics, advantages and disadvantages


5 main benefits of Identity Management


What are the differences between REST and SOAP?











 

Technical workshop: how to reach the digital transformation of your company?
Download Ebook








Related Articles
Catch up on the latest news, articles, guides and opinions from Chakray.












 


Integration of services

The four dimensions of a hybrid integration platform







Jamie Carter and Vince Blogg
 Head of Business and Architecture Services & Technical Lead









 













 


Integration of services

How to configure WSO2 Apache Kafka Connector with WSO2 Micro Integrator






Swapnil Bankar
Integrator Architect









 













 


BPMN

How to Use Java Service Tasks in WSO2 BPS






Juan Carlos Montes
WSO2 Specialist









 




























How we can help

Initiatives
Expertise
Technologies
Services
Implementation



Chakray

Home
Careers
About
Contact



Learning

Articles
EBooks





Subscribe to our newsletter

Register to receive our monthly newsletter containing the latest articles, guides and opinions in the world of integration, delivered straight to your inbox.


Follow Us













Copyright 2022 © ISO 9001:2015 certified.
This site is protected by hCaptcha and its Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
Digital Design by  Edge of the Web




Quality Policy
Privacy Policy
















