



















Distributed Message Service - Open Telekom Cloud

 






















Open Telekom Cloud for Business Customers








Open Telekom Cloud





Life is for sharing.









Open Telekom Cloud






Benefits







Benefits






Highest security






OpenStack - flexibility and security






Open Telekom Cloud: Market Leader






Personal support from experts






References










Security Overview






Our data centers






Data protection and compliance






Zero Outage









GAIA-X






Cloud made in Europe. With GAIA-X, Europe is positioning itself for full data and technology sovereignty. The Open Telekom Cloud is ready today.About GAIA-X 






Products & Services







Products & Services






Core Services






Managed Services






Hybrid Cloud






Swiss Open Telekom Cloud






Upcoming releases











Price calculator






Here you can estimate costs, compare pricing models and download your results or enter your personal identifier.Open price calculator 






Prices







Prices






Price calculator






Overview of pricing models






Financial Dashboard










Pricing Models Overview






Pricing Models: Computing & Containers






Pricing Models: Storage






Pricing Models: Network






Pricing Models: Database & Analysis






Pricing Models: Security






Pricing Models: Management & Applications









Price calculator






Here you can estimate costs, compare pricing models and download your results or enter your personal identifier.Open price calculator 






Solutions







Solutions






Industry-specific solutions






Cloud Technology Use Cases






Our cloud solutions






Cloud solutions from our partners










Overview






Public Sector






Science and research






Automotive






Media and broadcasting






Retail








Overview




DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION 



Artificial Intelligence






High-performance computing






Big data and analytics






Internet of Things




IT SECURITY 



Disaster Recovery






Data storage









Artificial intelligence






Your one-stop shop for AI: 1,500 experts and scalable, data protection-compliant computing capacity from the Open Telekom Cloud.Find out more 






Partner


Support







Support






Personal support from experts






Training & Certifications






Community






Open Telekom Cloud App






Help tools






Shared Responsibility






Guidelines for Security Testing (Penetration Tests)






Open Telekom Cloud Tutorial Trophy






Download: studies, whitepaper, flyer










Overview






Fundamentals training course






Practitioner online self-training






Architect training course






Certifications








First steps






Tutorial






Cloud Topology Designer






Release Notes






FAQ: frequently asked questions









Cloud Topology Designer






Easily and quickly design cloud-based applications and operate them in any cloud.More about Cloud Topology Designer 






News







Blog






Trade Press






Events






Release Notes











Your booster into the „New Normal“






Digital collaboration is the challenge of the moment. Our TechBoost partners provide your company with future-oriented solutions based on the Open Telekom Cloud.Find out more 
















EN








DE








Login








Console






MyWorkplace






Cloud Topology Designer










Search

 











0800 33 04477


24 hours a day, seven days a week




Write an E-mail






Book now and claim starting credit of EUR 250















Home






Products & Services





Distributed Message Service



 





< Back to products and services




Distributed Message Service (DMS)





The Distributed Message Service (DMS) in the Open Telekom Cloud is based on Apache Foundation's Kafka solution and enables communication between different applications, for example in order to synchronize data and processes. The DMS works like a postal service within the cloud: senders and receivers do not need to be active at the same time. Applications that send messages in the form of JSON objects do not need to wait for acknowledgment of receipt from other applications – the DMS creates a processing queue and sends the message at a later point. This enables coordination between individual components of a cloud application, for instance in order to synchronize the status of data, making DMS the perfect solution for large, distributed application landscapes. 








 



 





Reasons for DMS in the Open Telekom Cloud

















High availabilityDMS stores queued messages on different servers, and each message has multiple replicas, achieving high reliability and availability. 


 
















High reliabilityData replication and synchronous flushing to disks ensure up to 99.99999999% data reliability, while clustered and cross-AZ deployments ensure up to 99.95% service availability. 


 
















High performanceDMS queues can support millions of messages without compromising performance and can reach a throughput of 100,000 concurrent messages per second. Message delivery time is accurate to the millisecond. 


 
















SecurityDMS interacts with Cloud Trace Service (CTS) to record and audit tenant management operations. Encrypted message storage protects them from unauthorized access. 


 





Key Features of DMS









 



 







Message featuresMessage filteringConsumers can use labels to filter the messages they want to retrieve from the chosen queue.Message trackingMessages that have already been retrieved can be retrieved again from the specified time or position.Intentional delay deliveryMessages can be delivered after a specified delay.Message broadcastingThe same message can be delivered to all consumers in a consumer group.Message re-deliveryMessages that will not be immediately retrieved can be returned to the original queues. Consumers can retrieve them when they wish. 


 




















Queue types and access protocolsDMS is compatible with native Kafka queues, so you can migrate your message services without any modifications.Multiple queue typesMulti-protocol access 


 
















Queue featuresDMS queues support dead letters queues, queue sharing and authorization.Dead letter queue 


 



 





Use Cases

DMS can be used in various fields, such as enterprise applications, online payments, telecommunications, e-commerce, logistics, marketing, social networking, Instant Messaging (IM), mobile gaming, video, Internet of Things (IoT), and Internet of Vehicles (IoV).Distributed Message Service is useful in the following scenarios:







Service decoupling








DMS provides message notifications for supplementary services that are dependent on other systems. It decouples supplementary services from key services, allowing key services to proceed without waiting for other systems.For example, the order processing (OP) system of an e-commerce website puts order information in DMS message queues during promotional activities. The inventory and delivery management systems will read the order information from the queues later. 




Eventual consistency








In trading or payment systems, the transaction status (success or failure) must be consistent across subsystems or modules. Reliable message transmission is required between subsystems or modules to ensure service continuity. DMS provides highly reliable data transmission between subsystems or modules to ensure transaction statuses consistency at lower costs.For example, if a bank customer buys wealth management products by using the deposit, the gains of wealth management products may not be included in the customer's deposit account. This is because a wealth management system usually processes transactions at the end of each day. To avoid reconciliation inconsistency between the banking system and the wealth management system, purchasing and payment data of wealth management products can be stored in DMS, ensuring the eventual consistency between the deposit balance and the wealth management gains. 




Off-peak traffic control








In e-commerce systems or other large-scale websites, there is a processing capability gap between upstream and downstream systems. Traffic bursts from upstream systems with high processing capabilities may have a large impact on downstream systems with low processing capabilities.For example, online sales promotions involve a huge amount of traffic flooding into e-commerce systems. DMS can help to buffer orders and other information, relieving pressure on downstream systems. It provides a three-day buffer for hundreds of millions of messages, allowing message consumption systems to process them during off-peak periods. 




Log synchronization 








Applications asynchronously send log messages to DMS over reliable transmission channels. Other components can read log messages from message queues for further analysis, either in real time or offline. In addition, DMS can collect required key log information to monitor applications. DMS's log synchronization process includes the following steps:The log collection client collects log data from a user application service and writes the log data to message queues.Message queues receive, store, and forward the log data.Log processing applications subscribe to and consume log messages stored in message queues. 







Structure and Function

DMS works in distributed and highly scalable computing clusters and comes with standardized RESTful APIs that are used to access the generated messages. The queued messages are stored on different partitions, and the cloud-native service can be used without any additional hardware or software resources. The DMS can be controlled via the web console, OTC Terraform Provider, or the OpenStack command-line interface. The generated message queues or Apache Kafka Premium clusters are processed in sequence in accordance with the first-in-first-out principle. In addition, the DMS supports dead letter queues (in which messages that could not be delivered are stored).









 



 




Step 1A producer sends message M to a message queue. Message M is redundantly distributed in the queue. 













 



 




Step 2A consumer receives message M from the queue.While message M is being retrieved, it remains in the queue. It cannot be retrieved again within 30s since the start of retrieval. If message M fails to be acknowledged within this period, it can be retrieved again. 













 



 




Step 3Once message M is acknowledged, it can no longer be retrieved by consumers from the same consumer group.However, it can still be retrieved by consumers from other consumer groups. It remains in the queue for at least 72 hours (unless the queue is deleted) and will be deleted after this period. 





Distributed Message Services as a shared or dedicated solutionThe Open Telekom Cloud offers message queues as part of a shared model, meaning that computing resources are shared between customers and costs are assigned based on the number of API calls and queues triggered.Apache Kafka Premium, on the other hand, offers a dedicated, managed cluster solution with maximum availability at the touch of a button. Compared to message queues, Kafka Premium offers a guaranteed data throughput for messages, which is essential for enterprise solutions. Kafka Premium can be used both internally via the secure OTC network, and externally via the internet. The cluster costs depend on your desired cluster size and are incurred on an hourly basis, regardless of the number of API calls and queues. This makes it easy for you to calculate the cost of your business case.Kafka Premium instances use physically isolated computing, storage, and bandwidth resources. You can customize partitions and replicas for Kafka topics in the instances, and configure the network bandwidth as required. The instances can be used right out of the box, taking off the deployment and O&M pressure for you so that you can focus on developing your services.



New Features














04/02/2020





Kafka Premium now with Kafka 2.3 available (beta)


View details










06/05/2020





Kafka Premium now with Kafka 2.3 available (beta phase completed)


View details










05/12/2022





Discontinue DMS Queue Manager end of June 2022


View details




view all release notes

 



Find out more










Pricing overview

Price calculatorPricing Models: Management & ApplicationsService description incl. price list (PDF) 









Documentation

User Guide and API descriptionFAQs 









Tutorials

Adoption guide (part 1)Adoption guide (part 2)Automating with APIs 











Book now and claim starting credit of EUR 250* (code: 4UOTC250)







Book now















Take advantage of our consulting services!

Our experts will be happy to help you.We will answer any questions you have regarding testing, booking and usage – free and tailored to your needs. Try it out today!Hotline: 24 hours a day, seven days a week  



0800 33 04477





from Germany







+800 33 04 47 70





from abroad








Write an E-mail









* Voucher can be redeemed until December 31, 2022. Please contact us when using the voucher for booking. The discount is only valid for customers with a billing address in Germany and expires two months after conclusion of the contract. The credit is deducted according to the valid list prices as per the service description. Payment of the credit in cash is excluded.  








The Open Telekom Cloud Community



This is where users, developers and product owners meet to help each other, share knowledge and discuss. 


Discover now










Telefon

Free expert hotline



Our certified cloud experts provide you with personal service free of charge.0800 33 04477 (from Germany)+800 33 04 47 70 (from abroad)24 hours a day, seven days a week 






E-Mail

Write an E-mail



Our customer service is available free of charge via E-Mail 


Write an E-Mail






















Further topics



Partner programs




Status Dashboard




Telekom Cloud Marketplace







Contact



Help & Contact







Login



MyWorkplace




Console




Cloud Topology Designer







Stay informed



Blog




Events




LinkedIn




Xing




Youtube









© 2022 T-Systems International GmbH. All rights reserved.


 




Life is for sharing.







CDPA

 



Disclaimer of liability

 



Data privacy

 



Imprint

 






 




Note: Your browser does not support modern web technologies to a sufficient extent. Please use a modern standard browser (Microsoft Edge, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome). Many Thanks.


Hide this notification







 Sorry, this page is only available in German


Hide this notification














