










EAI or ETL: When you should choose one over the other





























































 




 







 


  



   


Toggle navigation







DBSync Home
 

Integration

Integration

Embracing Big Data Could Increase Profitability Margins by 60%



Advantages of Cloud Data lake



Why do you need a 3rd party tool for Salesforce Backup & Restore?



5 Ways to Reduce Risk of Data Loss



 

CRM

CRM

Integrating Customer Intelligence with your CRM



Accounting Integration for ServiceMax



Analytics Best Practice: Order-to-Cash Performance & more KPI’s



Popular Field Service Management Apps



 

Accounting

Accounting

Automation in Accounting Process



Helping FCNY Give a Pleasing Flute Buying Experience to Their Customers



How US Compliance Leverages Automation to Improve Project Billing



How SOX, FINRA, and Financial Compliance Impacts Data Backup and Retention



 

BI & BigData

BI & BigData

Integrating Customer Intelligence with your CRM



EAI or ETL: When you should choose one over the other



Describing Enterprise Artificial Intelligence: Platform as a Service with Current AI Infrastructure



How Business Automation is shaping Digital Transformation



 

ERP

ERP

Benefits of Automating ERP System



Why integrating NetSuite and Salesforce through a middleware is the best way



9 NetSuite Benefits for Fast-growing Companies



SkuVault with QuickBooks, Microsoft Dynamics GP, NAV & More



 








 

										EAI or ETL: When you should choose one over the other									 Avinash RaoAccounting and BI and CRMMay 14, 2020CRMEAIETL 



  
  
As part of our quarterly review process of all the FAQs, we have decided to touch upon the most frequently talked about subject, ETL vs EAI. In this article, we look to address some of the pain points involved in the decision-making process between the two, what they mean to your Business and when you should draw boundaries between these two integration techniques.
As part of any data integration strategy, it is a golden rule of thumb to follow ‘prevent and prepare rather than repent and repair’. In most cases concerning Business Intelligence initiatives, if you know what you don’t need, you are already halfway through in the quest to what you want to achieve. Business Enterprises invest millions of dollars on BI initiatives and Data Warehousing and hence rely on consistent, accurate and reliable data.
Thus following proper integration techniques becomes all the more vital. With concerned to enterprise-integration strategy, EAI is essential for maintaining perfect harmony between business needs and IT solutions whereas Data integration, a function of ETL is a constant need as inconsistent data at the heart of any BI initiative fails to provide an accurate picture of the Business. Hence the vital question EAI or ETL?
What is EAI (Enterprise Application Integration)?
EAI may be defined as a process of aligning a business’s strategic vision with its information technology. In other words, EAI is mainly process integration that exists to allow client applications to operate on data from across the business through API calls without regard to its location, encapsulating technology or format. It involves the integration of incompatible business applications within and beyond the enterprise to allow them to talk to each other seamlessly and to share data in real time.
What is EAI
EAI solutions enable the automation of end-to-end business processes by coordinating sequences of tasks and resources (both systems and people) that perform them. EAI solutions support sophisticated exception management and the dynamic modification of processes even when processes are underway. EAI involves developing a ‘unified view’ of an enterprise’s business and its applications, seeing how existing applications fit into the scheme of things and then devising ways to efficiently reuse what already exists while adding new applications and data.
EAI integration is mostly message-based, transaction-oriented, point-to-hub, brokering and transformation for application-to-application integration. Some of the core benefits offered by Enterprise Application Integration are.

A focus on integrating both business-level processes and data
A focus on reuse and distribution of business processes and data
A focus on simplifying application integration by reducing the amount of detailed, application specific knowledge required by the users

What is ETL (Extraction, Transformation & Loading)?
As the acronym stands, ETL is a process of extraction / reading a database, transforming or validating the data, and lastly loading/writing to a database. Extract, Transform & Load are three database functions that are combined into one tool (like DBSync) to pull data out of source databases and place it into target databases. ETL is used to migrate data from databases to others, to form data marts and data warehouses and also to convert databases from one format or type to another.

Extract – The process of reading data from source systems. Data can be extracted in schedule-driven pull mode or event-driven push mode. Pull mode operation supports data consolidation and is typically done in batch. Push mode operation is one online by propagating data changes to target data stores.
Transform – the process of converting the extracted data from its existing form into the format it needs to be in so that it can be placed into other systems or databases. Transformation occurs by using rules or lookup tables or by combining the data with other data.
Load – The process of creation and execution of workflows to write data into the target systems. Data loading may cause a complete refresh of a target data store or may be done by updating the target destination. Interfaces here include de facto standards like ODBC, JBDC, JMS, or application interfaces.
ETL is mainly designed to process very large amounts of data, ETL provides a suitable platform for

Improved productivity by reuse of objects and transformations
Strict Methodology
Better Metadata Support, including impact analysis.

Drawing Boundaries for ETL & EAI
As mentioned in the above sections, both techniques rely on the concept of a unified view and the definition of a mapping that allows data from many disparate sources to be “projected” onto that view. But what difference are the purpose, speed and direction and amount of data that are transformed and placed within the unified view from the external sources.
Process-level integration mainly deals with building enterprise-wide business workflows and processes and incorporating existing applications into those processes. EAI middleware acts as the workflow engine integrating applications in near real time, passing small amounts of data through message queues and a series of stages. EAI tools provide much more complete workflow capabilities than ETL tools, which provide simple workflow.  EAI tools, and especially their workflow components, provide very sophisticated GUI development environments that enable the design and management of very complex business processes. Here transformations are focused on ensuring a common understanding of the context and meaning (semantics) of the data involved within the message, the more likely a proven EAI is more appropriate.
With regards to data integration, ETL tools and also next generation ETL clearly holds an advantage whether in batch or real time. Synchronizing data between two applications involves a lot more data manipulation than simply moving data from point Source to Target. It involves data intense tasks that depend upon either RDBMS efficiencies/scalability or in-memory data caching to achieve the necessary throughput. Typically, enterprise data warehousing projects require you to move large amounts of data within relatively small windows of time. Also since ETL tools were born out of the relational database world, and thus are adept at performing SQL oriented transformations. They deal mainly with pulling data out of multiple relational tables, understanding the meaning and relationships between the tables, combining, merging, or joining that data, and augmenting it with data from their sources. Since this is more than just moving data from Source to Target, ETL is more appropriate.



When EAI
When ETL


A high number of transactions
Large amounts of data


Message transforms
Complex transformations


Transformation act on a single row of data
Transformation is data-set oriented


Little data augmentation
Large data augmentation


1 to n ; m to n
Point-to-point


Suitable for real-time data needs
Suitable for large amounts of data


High volume, low footprint data exchange
Generally used to move data between 2 or more databases/data repositories



Read more about this or Watch a DBSync Demo of Salesforce.com & Microsoft Dynamics GP – here

 

CRM EAI ETL



 




Avinash Rao
Avinash Rao is a DBSync Evangelist and has a breadth of experience in the SaaS space for over 8 years. An expert in cloud integration solutions, he currently serves as the Global Delivery Manager at DBSync. With his deep technical expertise and exceptional people skills, Avinash has implemented and delivered over 350 CRM and Accounting integration solutions for small and large enterprises. Connect with Avinash at Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/avinash-rao/

   
 Accounting and Big Data and CRM and Integration and ServicemaxAugust 28, 2020   Popular Field Service Management Apps     Rajeev Gupta      Accounting and BI and CRMMay 14, 2020   EAI or ETL: When you should choose one over the other     Avinash Rao      Business insights and IntegrationJanuary 17, 2020   How to assess if your e-Commerce business needs iPaaS     Rajeev Gupta      API and IntegrationAugust 25, 2018   Be ahead of the pack with iPaaS, the successor of ETL     Rajeev Gupta     LOAD MORE 
 

 
Leave a Reply Cancel Reply 



 

 



  

 
 Recent PostsAutomation in Accounting ProcessEmbracing Big Data Could Increase Profitability Margins by 60%Advantages of Cloud Data lakeWhy do you need a 3rd party tool for Salesforce Backup & Restore?5 Ways to Reduce Risk of Data LossCategories 
Accounting

API

API Management

API Services

Automation

Award

BI

Big Data

Business insights

Cloud

Cloud Replication

CRM

Data Management

Dreamforce

Ecommerce

EDI

ERP

ESB

Event

Healthcare

Information Security

Integration

Inventory Management

Legal Case Management

Microservices

Microsoft Dynamics

Microsoft Inspire

News

Oracle

Order Management

QuickBooks

Replication

SaaS Backup

SaaS Data Management

Sage

Sage100

Salesforce

Servicemax

Statistics

Subscriptions

Wine Distribution


TagsAccounting
API
API Management
API Services
automation
Big Data
big data analytics
Big Data integration
business insights
business intelligence
Cloud
cloud data
Cloud Data Archive
Cloud Replication
cloud strategy
CRM
Data Backup
Database
data integration
data integration software
data quality
dbsync
Dreamforce
ecommerce
ERP
Integrating QuickBooks
integration
Integration Platform
inventory accounting
inventory forecast
iPaaS
Microsoft Dynamics CRM
Microsoft Dynamics GP
Microsoft Dynamics Nav
QuickBooks
Replication
REST API
saas data backup
Sage 100
Salesforce
salesforce.com
Salesforce integration
Shopify
Small Business
Swagger
  Subscribe To RSS Feed
 
 
  
 
  





Quick StartsDBSync Home
Documentation

iPaaS – Cloud Workflow
Cloud Replication for Salesforce


Contact Us Community


Sales: sales@mydbsync.com

Support for Cloud Workflow - iPaaS:

support-ipaas@mydbsync.com

Support for Cloud Replication:

support-cdm@mydbsync.com
 
 

 



 



 
Copyright DBSync 2009-2017













