




How middleware platforms can benefit mobile apps























































SearchMobileComputing




Search the TechTarget Network




Sign-up now. Start my free, unlimited access.

Login
Register




Techtarget Network
News
Features
Tips
Webinars

More Content


Answers
Definitions
Essential Guides
Opinions
Photo Stories
Podcasts
Quizzes
Tutorials

Sponsored Communities











SearchMobileComputing





Topic  
								Mobile infrastructure
  




 Mobile application strategy
 Mobile management
 Mobile operating systems and devices
 Mobile security
All Topics





Follow:














kantver - Fotolia





Tip


How middleware platforms can benefit mobile apps



Organizations that build mobile apps with a lot of integrations with back-end services should consider middleware. But first, be aware of these pros and cons.






Share this item with your network:



























































By


Robert Sheldon



	Published: 08 Aug 2018


 
It can be a complex process to implement mobile business apps and connect them to back-end systems, but middleware platforms offer a simpler route.








Most enterprise applications need to communicate with back-end systems -- such as directory services, file servers, databases or storage services -- to access the data and services they need to conduct business. Mobile apps are no different, but they also come with additional unique challenges.
For example, because mobile apps run on devices with less processing power and memory than a typical desktop, IT may need to offload more of the processing to back-end servers. IT often updates mobile app front ends more frequently than back-end systems or the APIs that facilitate communication, which can complicate connectivity -- especially if app updates are not concurrent across all the devices.
Developers must also contend with unique platform and device features. Many mobile devices support fingerprint authentication, which developers must incorporate into the larger security and authentication infrastructure. At the same time, developers have to cope with features that can have an indirect effect on security, such as cameras and GPS.
A mobile app must also be able to work across different connection types, including 4G networks, public Wi-Fi and corporate networks, which can change as end users change locations. These changing networks can also lead to intermittent connectivity, which makes it necessary for apps to have offline connectivity.
In addition to these challenges, developers must build apps that run on different OSes, different versions of those OSes and different device types, which range from smartphones to tablets to smartwatches.

Middleware platforms to the rescue
Many developers customize their apps to support connectivity to different resources, which can be a long process.
Middleware platforms can help enable and simplify connectivity between mobile apps and back-end systems no matter the type of system or its location. Middleware sits between the back-end resources and mobile apps, abstracting the complexities that come with connecting to resources. Middleware also uses standards-based technologies such as Simple Object Access Protocol and REST.



    But middleware does more than just manage connectivity.
   



With middleware platforms, developers have a single gateway to back-end systems, which makes it easier for them to connect their mobile apps to corporate resources. They don't need to customize each version of an app to accommodate the requirements of the individual systems. IT admins can modify those systems without breaking all the applications; they only need to update the middleware.
But middleware does more than just manage connectivity. A comprehensive platform also handles issues such as scaling, load balancing, concurrent processing and transaction management. In addition, the platform ensures that the connections and back-end systems are protected and secure, incorporating authentication, encryption and other protection technologies as necessary.
Some middleware platforms also make it possible to implement custom logic that carries out specific operations based on app requests, such as tailoring data to specific locations.


Make these middleware decisions
If an organization is deploying a few mobile apps and connectivity to the back-end resources is simple and straightforward, middleware might be overkill. But a more complex operation may require significant effort to implement all the capabilities that middleware provides.
Middleware services are available as software products that IT can install on premises or through cloud services, such as integration platform as a service or middleware as a service. An IT team considering a middleware platform should take into account the apps they're running, when and how those apps are used, and the types of back-end systems that support those apps.
Mobile apps require flexibility, and cloud-based middleware is typically a good fit for that. Cloud services are also easier to implement and maintain. On the other hand, an organization might need a middleware platform that also supports more traditional types of apps and services. In that case, an on-premises platform might be a better fit.








Dig Deeper on Mobile infrastructure



Why IoT needs an intelligent ecosystem




By: Ben Pietrabella




middleware




By: Alexander Gillis




Middleware as a Service (MWaaS)

By: TechTarget Contributor




Overcome app deployment challenges in a multi-cloud strategy




By: Tom Nolle












Sponsored News


Why IT Must Break Down Silos as Part of its Digital Transformation Initiative
–Citrix


Preserve Your Choices When You Deploy Digital Workspaces
–Citrix


What’s Next in Digital Workspaces: 3 Improvements to Look for in 2019
–Citrix

See More






			Related Content


middleware
– SearchAppArchitecture


Cache networks for better mobile application ...
– SearchAppArchitecture


mobile middleware
– SearchAppArchitecture
















Latest TechTarget resources



							Networking





							Unified Communications





							Security











SearchNetworking




20 systemctl commands for system and service management
System and service management are vital to ensure customer satisfaction and service delivery. These systemctl commands can help ...



How enterprise networks use WAN virtualization
SD-WAN is the most common form of WAN virtualization. But virtual WAN strategies are evolving to include software-defined ...



Cisco revenue depressed by China lockdowns, supply woes
COVID-related lockdowns around China prevented Cisco from getting critical components, leading to a projected decline in revenue.






SearchUnifiedCommunications




Hybrid meeting technology helps AV teams address equity
AV teams are challenged in providing remote and in-room meeting attendees the same experience. Hybrid meeting technology for ...



Google adds AI summary feature to Workspace
AI-generated meeting and document summaries can help workers find important information, according to Google. The company will ...



Why a distributed cloud architecture could be a boon for UC
Some organizations are more comfortable in keeping their unified communications on premises. Distributed clouds might be a more ...






SearchSecurity




Top 4 source code security best practices
Software supply chain attacks are on the rise. Follow these source code best practices to protect both in-house and third-party ...



'Pantsdown' BMC vulnerability still present in Quanta servers
Eclypsium found that a critical security flaw first disclosed in 2019 remains exposed in many internet-facing servers, leaving ...



Verizon DBIR: Stolen credentials led to nearly 50% of attacks
The 2022 Verizon Data Breach Investigations Report revealed enterprises' ongoing struggle with securing credentials and avoiding ...















About Us
Editorial Ethics Policy
Meet The Editors
Contact Us
Advertisers
Business Partners
Media Kit
Corporate Site


Contributors
Reprints
Answers
Definitions
E-Products
Events
Features


Guides
Opinions
Photo Stories
Quizzes
Tips
Tutorials
Videos




All Rights Reserved, 
Copyright 2003 - 2022, TechTarget


Privacy Policy



Cookie Preferences 



Do Not Sell My Personal Info












Close





