








Key Criteria for Evaluating Streaming Data Platforms - Gigaom



























































































































Skip to content

Close


Search

 


				Main Navigation			
Gigaom




								Reports							



								On-Demand Webinars							






Login




Sign Up for Free


Show Search




Login



















			Image credit: nevarpp		




Related Research



						GigaOm Radar for Data Science Platforms: Cloud Providers, Data Platform Vendors, and Enterprise Incumbents					
Andrew J. Brust, Esin Alpturk



						Enterprise Readiness of Cloud MLOps: A GigaOm Benchmark Report					
William McKnight, Jake Dolezal







Andrew J. Brust
Dec 10, 2019 (Oct 13, 2020)  -- Key Criteria & Market Landscape 

			Key Criteria for Evaluating Streaming Data Platformsv1.0 

				The Next Generation			



Table of Contents


Summary

Definition & Categories
Key Criteria Definitions
Vendor Review
Key Takeaways
About Andrew BrustAbout GigaOmCopyright 
Summary
Streaming data platforms comprise a relatively new category in the data world; one which has seen explosive growth in the last decade. The proliferation of massive data producing applications — such as web applications, social media, Internet of Things (IoT) devices, and others — has created massive amounts of continuous data that has overwhelmed traditional storage and processing solutions. A variety of streaming platforms have emerged to address these needs better than traditional database and message queueing systems. The next generation of streaming data platforms has succeeded in handling real-time data at the petabyte scale, with increasing ease-of-use.
In this report, we explore the major streaming data platforms, outline the key criteria by which a streaming platform should be evaluated, and award marks to each platform based on how it covers those key criteria and evaluation metrics. Below we present our awards given to data streaming platforms we examined.

Key findings:

The sector is undergoing rapid development and expansion. There are no clear commercial winners, although some clear trends on the underlying technology have emerged.
The majority of vendor offerings are based on open-source technology, typically from the Apache Software Foundation. Apache platforms such as Kafka, Beam, Pulsar, and others underpin the majority of commercial offerings. In particular, Kafka surfaces in some way or another in most of the offerings, typically as an underlying technology or as a data source/destination.
General levels of abstraction of underlying technology and ease-of-use still need to improve for streaming data technology to see wider adoption among mainstream technologists.
All vendors offer connectivity to on-premises and cloud-based data sources. Enterprise software companies’ and cloud providers’ streaming products and services offer deep integration with their own broader platforms.
Perhaps due to the open-source pedigree, or the cloud native-capabilities of the offerings, most vendor pricing is relatively transparent. There are still some heavy touch sales tactics from some of the traditional vendors, but most offerings offer clear and sometimes self-service pricing.
Given the size of the data streaming platform market, we have grouped the offerings together in four distinct categories:

Apache Kafka-based services
General-purpose cloud-native services
Start-up platforms
Other streaming platforms


Implementation of the vendors’ offerings is typically a complex affair for on-premises solutions. While open source technology has been a boon for innovation, it also requires significant expertise to set up, manage, and operationalize in order to achieve acceptable performance. On the other hand, cloud-native managed offerings and management tooling has sprung up from many vendors to make data streaming easier to set up and operate.
Our platform evaluation criteria orbit around these five axes:

Platform maturity
Hybrid cloud capabilities
Visual data pipeline authoring
Edge data processing capabilities
Management interface features


We also outline a set of common evaluation metrics

On-premises availability
Cloud-native capabilities
Managed services offerings
Analytics offerings
Connectivity & Development


Most platforms offer a variety of capabilities. We have found that the major areas on offer include:

Real-time data latency
Streaming analytics
Connectivity to and from on-premises and cloud data sources
Cloud-native capabilities
Managed services
Compatibility with Apache Kafka
Visual, low-code or no-code streaming data pipeline construction
Auto-scaling, healing, replication, and management tools
Edge processing for localized operations on data at or near the device generating events







Full content available to GigaOm Subscribers.
Sign Up For Free



 

Streaming Data



					Tweet
				



					Share
				



					Post
				






Related Research









Andrew J. Brust, Esin Alpturk
Mar 29, 2022 (Mar 30, 2022)  -- Market Radar 


				GigaOm Radar for Data Science Platforms: Cloud Providers, Data Platform Vendors, and Enterprise Incumbents			



This Radar report will help enterprise buyers become familiar with data science platforms and vendor offerings. Most enterprise organizations now work with…

							Read More
						


Data Infrastructure, AI & Analytics

 








William McKnight, Jake Dolezal
May 6, 2022 -- TCO & Benchmark 


				Enterprise Readiness of Cloud MLOps: A GigaOm Benchmark Report			



MLOps is a practice for collaboration between data science and operations to manage the production machine learning (ML) lifecycles. As an amalgamation of machine learning…

							Read More
						


Data Infrastructure, AI & Analytics

 








Michael Azoff
Apr 29, 2022 -- Key Criteria & Market Landscape 


				Key Criteria for Evaluating Intelligent Virtual Assistants			



Intelligent virtual assistant (IVA) technology has transformed automated telephone response systems, such as those typically used in call centers for the first…

							Read More
						


Data Infrastructure, AI & Analytics,
								DevOps & Applications,
								People Analytics

 








William McKnight, Jake Dolezal
Apr 26, 2022 -- TCO & Benchmark 


				SQL Transaction Processing and Analytic Performance Price-Performance Testing			



The fundamental underpinning of an organization is its transactions. They must be done well, with integrity and performance. Not only has transaction…

							Read More
						


Data Infrastructure, AI & Analytics

 








Andrew J. Brust, Esin Alpturk
Mar 29, 2022 (Apr 14, 2022)  -- Market Radar 


				GigaOm Radar for Data Science Platforms: Pure-Play Specialist and Startup Vendors			



This Radar report will help enterprise buyers become familiar with data science platforms and vendor offerings. Enterprise customers manage massive amounts of…

							Read More
						


Data Infrastructure, AI & Analytics

 






			Image credit: Copyright: peshkov 

Sponsored by  





Enrico Signoretti
Mar 23, 2022 (Mar 21, 2022)  -- Blog 


				Ransomware: Why It’s Time to Think of it as a Data Management Problem			



Over the last couple of years, ransomware has taken center stage in data protection, but very few people realize it is only…

							Read More
						


Cloud & Infrastructure,
								Data Management,
								Security & Risk

 
















								Gigaom							
Knowingly Corporation

								3905 State Street #7-448 
Santa Barbara, CA 93105-5107 							
Contact Sales +1 415-878-3110 

Subscribe to our monthly analyst insights
Stay on top of emerging trends by joining our newsletter, a monthly publication from our leading network of analysts.








Our Research



												Cloud, Infrastructure, & Management											



												DevOps											



												Data, Analytics, & AI											



												Security & Risk											



												Network and Edge											



												People, Processes, & Applications											




For Practitioners



												Research Subscription											



												Analyst Videos											



												TCO & Benchmark											



												Radars											



												Advisory Services											



												Key Criteria											



												Business & Technology Impact											



												Sonars											



												GigaBrief											




For Vendors



												TCO & Benchmark											



												Radars											



												Key Criteria											



												Business & Technology Impact											



												Advisory Services											



												Sonars											



												Analyst Videos											



												Research Subscription											



												GigaBrief											



												Value Engineering											




Resources



												Blog											



												Case Studies											



												On-Demand Webinars											



												GigaOm Research FAQs											



												Guides											




Company



												Why GigaOm											



												Our Team											



												Analysts											



												Partners											



												Press Room											



												Careers											



												Contact Us											









 Linkedin




 Twitter




 Facebook




 Instagram




 Youtube










											Privacy Policy										



											MSA										



											Terms of Service										



											©GigaOm All Rights Reserved 2022										















This website uses cookies; by continuing you are a agreeing to our Privacy Policy AcceptPrivacy & Cookies Policy




Close






Privacy Overview 
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.

 





                                Necessary                            


 Necessary 


                                    Always Enabled                                



This is an necessary category.












Save & Accept









































