




Performance comparison of JSON library under Java: JSON.simple vs. GSON vs. Jackson vs. JSONP - Karatos


















Toggle navigation





Karatos






home Home

                        



webOptions
                            




contactsContact
                                



policyPolicies
                                



infoAbout
                                


























































Performance comparison of JSON library under Java: JSON.simple vs. GSON vs. Jackson vs. JSONP





                        FaceBook Share
                    


Write My Article



                        Report
                    









widgets Article
                        




                Performance comparison of JSON library under Java: JSON.simple vs. GSON vs. Jackson vs. JSONP
        

From: Java Translation Station
Link: http://it.deepinmind.com/java/2015/06/15/the-ultimate-json-library-json-simple-vs-gson-vs-jackson-vs-json.html
Original: http://blog.takipi.com/the-ultimate-json-library-json-simple-vs-gson-vs-jackson-vs-json/


Which JSON library in Java has the fastest parsing speed?

JSON has become the current accepted standard for data transmission between servers and WEB applications, but like many things we are used to, you will feel that this is a matter of course and you will not think about it in depth. We rarely think about the difference between these JSON libraries, but in fact they are not the same. Therefore, we ran a benchmark test to test several commonly used JSON libraries to see which library is the fastest when parsing files of different sizes. Below I will share the results with everyone.

JSON is usually used to transfer and parse large files. This is a very common scenario for data processing programs running on Hadoop or Spark clusters. Under the given file size, you can see that there is a clear difference in the parsing speed between different libraries.

In the case of high throughput, small files are frequently transmitted and parsed, so the performance gap may not be obvious at the beginning. But if you need to parse a large number of small files frequently under very high load, the gap starts to increase. Microservices and distributed architectures often use JSON to transfer such files, because this is already the de facto standard for WEB APIs.

Not all JSON libraries are called "Trensu". How to select the correct library according to the usage scenario is very important. Hope this benchmark can help you.

JSON library

JSON.simple vs GSON vs Jackson vs JSONP

We chose four mainstream JSON libraries for benchmarking: JSON.simple, GSON, Jackson, and JSONP. These libraries are usually used for JSON parsing in Java. The reason for choosing them is that they appear frequently in the Github project.

The following is the JSON library we tested:


Yidong Fang's JSON.simple (https://github.com/fangyidong/json-simple). JSON.simple is a Java tool library for JSON encoding and decoding. It aims to create a lightweight, simple and high-performance tool library.
Google's GSON (https://github.com/google/gson). The GSON Java library can convert between Java objects and JSON. It also provides full support for Java generics, and does not require you to add annotations on the class. It is more convenient to use without adding annotations, and it is also a necessary prerequisite if the source code cannot be modified.
The Jackson project of FasterXML (https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson). Jackson is a toolkit for data processing. Its highlight is the streaming JSON parser and generator. It is designed for Java, and can also handle other non-JSON encodings. From our statistics on Github, it should be the most popular JSON parser.
Oracle's JSONP (https://jsonp.java.net/). JSONP (JSON Processing) is a set of Java APIs for JSON processing. From the name, it is used to generate and parse JSON strings. This is an open source implementation of the JSR353 specification.


Benchmarks

We benchmarked these libraries using both large and small files. With the difference in file size, the system resources required to process these texts will also increase.

This benchmark focuses on two key scenarios: parsing speed under large files (190MB) and parsing speed under small files (1KB). The big file is taken from here: https://github.com/zeMirco/sf-city-lots-json. The small file is randomly generated from here: http://www.json-generator.com/.

Whether it is a large file or a small file, we will use the same library to run 10 times repeatedly. For each large file, we will use the same library to run 10 times. For small files, it will be repeated 10,000 times in a single run of a single library. In each iteration of the small file test, the file content does not reside in memory, and the machine the test runs on is an AWS c3.large instance.

The complete test results of the large file are as follows. I averaged the results of the small file. To see the complete results, please move here. If you want to see the source code of the small file test, please download it from here.

Large file results

View Image

The results are very different! Jackson and JSON.simple led this round of testing. Overall, Jackson is slightly better than JSON.simple. Judging from the average results of the test runs, Jackson and JSON.simple perform better on large files, and JSONP lags far behind in third place, and GSON is far from the bottom.

Let's convert the result to a percentage. On average, Jackson is the winner. The following is the percentage data of the results, which can be compared from two dimensions:

View Image

The performance difference between different libraries is really not small.

Conclusion: Jackson won with a slight advantage. JSON.simple is close behind, while the remaining two libraries are far behind.

Small file result

View Image

The above table records the average time for parsing each file 10 times. The total average time is shown below. The number of times each library won the small file test is as follows:


GSON-14
JSONP-5
Jackson -1
JSON.simple-0


This result seems convincing. However, judging from the average results of all documents, the champion GSON is still well-deserved, and there should be no suspense in the dispute between JSON.simple and JSONP.
Jackson was at the bottom of the round. Although JSON.simple did not take the first place in any file, overall its parsing speed ranked second. Although JSONP won the championship on many files, on average, it only got the third place.

It is also worth noting that although Jackson is the slowest library in this round, its performance in all files is very consistent. Although the other three libraries will occasionally be much faster than Jackson, the analysis on other files The speed is quite even worse.

Let's convert these numbers into percentages and see the same two dimensions:

View Image

Compared with the large file test, the gap is relatively smaller this time, but it can't be ignored.
Conclusion: Unfortunately, JSON.simple missed the championship with a weak disadvantage, and this round of GSON won. JSONP is still the third millennium and this time Jackson rushed to a late episode.

to sum up

Parsing speed is not the only indicator of a JSON library, but it is indeed very important. By running this benchmark, we found that no library can beat the opponent on all files. Large files perform well but small files are rooted, and vice versa.

If you want to choose which library from the analysis speed, it depends on your usage scenario.


If your application often handles large JSON files, then Jackson should be your dish. GSON performed quite hard on large files.
If you are mainly dealing with small file requests, such as the initialization of a microservice or distributed architecture, then GSON is the first choice. Jackson's performance on small files was not satisfactory.
If you often handle both types of files, then JSON.simple, which ranks second in both rounds of performance, is more suitable for such scenarios. Jackson and GSON are not very good at different file sizes .


Unless you don't consider the parsing speed, JSONP has nothing to praise. It performs poorly on large and small files compared to other libraries. Fortunately, Java 9 will soon have a native JSON implementation, I believe that JSONP's future performance is still worth looking forward to.

Finally finished. If you are sensitive to the parsing speed of the JSON library, choose Jackson for large files and GSON for small files, and JSON.simple for both. If you have any questions about this benchmark, please leave a message below.


● The article number is 115. If you want to read this article in the future, just enter 115.
● Type m to get the article directory.






Today's WeChat official account recommendation ↓↓↓
  
   





View Image









For more recommendations, please see " 15 Technical Public WeChat "

Covers: program life, algorithm and data structure, hacking technology and network security, big data technology, front-end development, Java, Python, Web development, Android development, iOS development, C / C ++, .NET, Linux, database, operation and maintenance, etc. . Disseminate computer learning experience and recommend excellent computer resources: click to go to " 15 WeChat Official Accounts of Technology "
View ImageClick to read the original text to understand the wild dog









widgets Related Articles
                        















widgets Contribution
                        






                        This article is contributed by
                        Anonymous
                        and text available under
                        CC-SA-4.0




















































 © 2022 - Karatos   

Policies  
                Contact 
                About





