











Persistence Hub











































































 



 










Enroll Now

Already a Member? LoginBecome aJava Persistence ExpertLearn everything you need to build fast and maintainable persistence layers and get recognized for your technical expertise. The certification courses, live events, and community of like-minded developers are the quickest way to achieve your goals!

Enroll Now















Steve EbersoleLead Developer forHibernate ORM



Lot of great Hibernate insightsThorben has been part of a group of community experts for a long time, helping Hibernate users via his blog posts, articles and various forums. He has a lot of great Hibernate insights to share.










Ian WesleyVP Product Development at Bravado Health



Mastery of HibernateThorben demonstrated his mastery of Hibernate and also showed he is an efficient programmer as well.










Lukas EderCEO at Data Geekery,Java Champion



Excels with his knowledge about modern JPAThorben not only excels with his knowledge about modern JPA API usage – he also consistently stresses the importance of knowing the underlying SQL technology.







Stop Copying Random Code Snippets And Finally Build Your Persistence Layers With Ease And Confidence!Lots of developers struggle to implement efficient and maintainable persistence layers. They copy code snippets from Stack Overflow without exactly knowing what the code does, hoping that it solves more issues than it creates. But that's not always the case. Due to that, they work overtime and miss deadlines.Being in such a situation creates a lot of stress and makes it hard to improve your skillset long-term. And it puts you in a difficult position if you want to get the next interesting project within your company or as a consultant. That makes it almost impossible to acquire the required skills and work on the right projects to get recognized as an expert.What if I told you that this doesn't have to be the case?What if I told you that knowing Hibernate's and Spring Data JPA's advanced features and their side effects is the key to working on interesting tasks? That it helps you to be appreciated by your manager and team members as a true expert and at the same time, allowing you to spend your evenings and weekends with your friends and family?I know, that might sound a little too good to be true. But it isn't. With access to the right resources and a supportive community of like-minded developers, you will get there.How I Learned To Do It The Right WayI was in the same situation. I copied code snippets from Stack Overflow and blog articles, only to find that they didn't work in my project or caused other problems not mentioned in the articles.The situation was frustrating, and I recognized that this approach wasn't working. You need to really understand the frameworks, with their complex features and side effects, so that you can choose the right approach for your application. Otherwise, each decision comes down to pure luck. To make it even worse, you often need to wait for your users to use your changes before you know if you made the right decision or whether it caused side effects you didn't find on your test system.Years ago, I got fed up with this needless guessing game. I knew that other teams were using Hibernate with huge success. There had to be a better way.Stop Guessing, Make Educated Decisions!I started to intentionally surround myself with like-minded developers. People who wanted to improve their skills, advance their technical career and work on interesting projects. I began to learn how Hibernate and Spring Data JPA really work and what's happening internally so that I was able to use them correctly.Instead of copying random code snippets, I started to dive deeper and put a lot of effort into learning as much as I could about Hibernate. I read the documentation, the JPA specification, and various books. I participated in online and offline discussions and tried lots of things myself.After a while, all the previously disjointed bits of knowledge and understanding started to form a complete picture. One in which the different features began to work together and in which the subtle comments I found in some articles began to make sense.That's Why I Built This PlaceNowadays, I use the same knowledge to help teams worldwide as a freelance consultant, coach, and trainer. It’s always amazing to see how a better understanding of Hibernate and Spring Data JPA can improve your productivity and get you one step closer to an enjoyable and successful career.While doing that for 6 years, I realized that courses and workshops are only one part of the ideal solution to improve your technical expertise. Being able to constantly interact with a supportive community and getting feedback from experts speeds up the entire process and makes it much more efficient.



Introducing the Persistence Hub




















The combination of premium video courses, a supportive community, and live Q&A and expert sessions helps you solve problems in your current project and improve your technical expertise quicker than ever before.The Persistence Hub gives you access to my premium video courses, making it much easier for you to find the information you need for your current task or find out more about a new topic. And the community forum and Q&A calls allow you to ask questions and discuss with other developers to find a quick solution to an acute problem or get an outside perspective before making a strategic decision.



The Persistence Hub Will Help You To:

Get your technical expertise to the next levelStart positioning yourself as a true expert in your field. Get a deep understanding of how your persistence framework works, which operations it performs, and what you need to do to ensure maintainability and performance.


Solve complex problems with confidenceUse proven training material and get help from experienced developers in the community instead of copying random code snippets, hoping that they solve your problem without causing an even bigger one. 


Connect with likeminded developersBenefit from the collective expertise of a community of developers who take their craft seriously and share your own knowledge.


Stay up to dateStudy continuously updated training material and join live expert sessions to keep up with the latest trends in the Java persistence world.





About Thorben JanssenThorben is an independent consultant, trainer, and international speaker specialized in solving Java persistence problems with JPA, Hibernate, and Spring Data JPA.He is also the author of Amazon’s bestselling book Hibernate Tips - More than 70 solutions to common Hibernate problems. Thorben has been working with Java and Java EE for 20 years and was part of the CDI 2.0 (JSR 365) expert group.



As seen at:


Join The Persistence Hub Today And Get ...

Immediate Access to The Extensive Course LibraryAre you a beginner or an experienced senior developer who has been using Hibernate or Spring Data JPA for years?No matter where you're starting, the Persistence Hub has you covered. The certification courses will provide you with the required knowledge to become a true expert and build better performing and more maintainable persistence layers. 


INTERACTIVE LIVE Q&A'S WITH THORBENDo you want to discuss a complex topic or need some advice to improve your persistence layer?I'm hosting 2 live monthly Q&A calls on which I answer your questions, share my experience and provide individual feedback. All calls get recorded and uploaded to the library.And you can, of course, ask your questions anytime in the member-only forum.





SUPPORTIVE COMMUNITY OF LIKEMINDED DEVELOPERSThe member-only forum allows you to connect with other developers who take their job and skillset as seriously as you do.This is the place to go if you're stuck with a problem, need an outside perspective on a strategic decision, or just want to hang out with some like-minded developers.


Expert Sessions with Thorben And GuestsThe Java space is constantly evolving and changing. Keeping up with all of this can be a challenge.Join the live expert sessions hosted by Thorben and guests to learn more about the latest developments, get insights from subject-matter experts and discuss your questions. All expert sessions get recorded and uploaded to the library.





Coding ChallengesKnowing about different concepts and features is helpful. But software development is a craft. You need to be able to apply your knowledge to different situations and combine multiple features to a working solution.That's what our coding challenges are for. These small tasks will challenge you to show what you're capable of. But don't worry; you don't have to solve them entirely on your own. If you want some support, you can discuss the challenge in the forum, and I will also provide additional resources to help you find the right solution. And on one of the 2 monthly Q&A calls, I will also present a solution and answer your questions.And when you're done, you either proofed your skills or learned something new.





What other people are saying about the courses in the Persistence Hub








Stephan KniteliusSenior Consultant



We have included them in our standard training libraryUsing the more advanced parts of object relational mapping, like dealing with complex inheritance structures, has never been easy. Thorben explains them in his Advanced Hibernate Online Training course in an easy-to-understand series of lessons and exercises.Implementing complex mapping structures is a breeze after this.We have included it in our standard training library for new developers.










Jean-Claude BrantschenSoftware Engineer



Great combination of video lectures, example projects and exercisesThe training course provides a great combination of video lectures, slides, example projects with JUnit tests and exercises with solutions. This approach is pretty unique for an online course. It not only made it easy to understand the different features and concepts, but it also helped me to apply them in my daily work.I was on a tight schedule and this course was perfect. It is well organized into compact and effective modules, with short lectures and exercises that made it easy to schedule time to learn after work. I was able to complete the course within several weeks despite my time constraints.The Advanced Hibernate Online Training course helped me to understand Hibernate much better and I recommend it to everyone who is using Hibernate.










Gregor Karl FreyChief Development Architect at SAP



Finally, I learned how to use criteria queriesGreat hands-on workshop about Hibernate's advanced features by Thorben Janssen.Finally, I have learned how to use criteria queries and stored procedures with Hibernate.





Join The Persistence Hub Today!The certification courses, live events, and community of like-minded developers in the Persistence Hub are the quickest way to get your Java persistence skills to the next level!Are you ready to take action?Then choose your subscription below and join the Persistence Hub.



Individual

Team








Pay Monthly39€per monthRecurring payment - cancel anytime30 day unconditional money-back guarantee



JOIN NOW











Pay ANNUALLY390€per year

BEST VALUE: Save 78€ when you join on an annual subscription!30 day unconditional money-back guarantee

JOIN NOW












5 User1950 € 1300€per yearRecurring payment - cancel anytime30 day unconditional money-back guarantee



JOIN NOW











10 User3900 € 2500€per year

Recurring payment - cancel anytime30 day unconditional money-back guarantee

JOIN NOW












20 User7800 € 4900€per yearRecurring payment - cancel anytime30 day unconditional money-back guarantee



JOIN NOW











50 User19500 € 12000€per year

Recurring payment - cancel anytime30 day unconditional money-back guarantee

JOIN NOW








All purchases and subscriptions for the Persistence Hub are handled securely & privately by Copecart.When you enroll in our monthly or annual subscription, you must agree to our Terms of Service, and your payment method of choice will be charged the price of the subscription you choose, either monthly or annually, plus any applicable taxes. You can always cancel at any time! 











Simple & Unconditional 100% Money-Back GuaranteeThis is more than just a guarantee. It's a promise from a developer (me) to a developer (you).Take 30 days to get to know the Persistence Hub membership learn how to avoid boilerplate code, and build efficient and maintainable persistence layers.If you're not happy with the membership, cancel your membership and send me a message to ask for a refund. I will promptly send you 100% of your money back.Yes, that's right. I'm taking all the risks with this guarantee. You could rip me off by enrolling in the Persistence Hub membership with the intention of requesting your money back after 30 days.But I trust that you won't do that. We software developers are honest people and don't rip each other off, right?So, I trust you, and you don't have to take any risks.












Instance 1







faq









I'm new to JPA / Hibernate / Spring Data JPA. Is the Persistence Hub right for me?



Yes, it is. We designed some of certification courses in the Persistence Hub specifically for beginners to teach you all the basics you need to know. After you completed them, you will have the required knowledge and understanding to start working on the more advanced topics.And if you get stuck at any point, you can ask your questions in the forum or on one of the Q&A calls.








I'm a senior developer with a good understanding of JPA / Hibernate / Spring Data JPA. Is the Persistence Hub right for me?



Yes, it is. The Persistence Hub includes courses on advanced topics, like Hibernate performance tuning or the design of data management and communication in a microservice architecture. And we're looking forward to discussing your questions in a Q&A call.








Can I watch recordings of the Q&A calls and expert sessions?



Yes, we record all live Q&A calls and expert sessions. If no technical problems occur during the recording, we upload the video to the library so that you can watch it on-demand.








Which courses are included in the Persistence Hub?



These courses are included in the Persistence Hub:JPA for BeginnersIf you are new to JPA / Hibernate / Spring Data JPA, this course is for you. You will learn all basic concepts, mapping annotations, and query features. After completing this course, you will be able to create simple persistence layers yourself and help your team to work on more complex projects. Advanced HibernateIf you want to learn about JPA's and Hibernate's more advanced and complex mapping and query features, this course is for you. You will learn how to use embeddables, composite primary keys, custom data types, inheritance mapping strategies, lifecycle callbacks, and common patterns to model your persistence layer. I will also show you how to use Hibernate's multi-tenancy feature, the Criteria API, and some of Hibernate's proprietary APIs to implement complex business requirements. To get the most out of this course, you should be familiar with the basic concepts, mappings, and query features. Hibernate Performance Tuning (Early Access - Release in December 2021)This course is for you if you want to improve the performance of your persistence layer. I will show you how to monitor Hibernate during development so that you can find performance problems as early as possible. You will learn how to use the best projection for each use case, avoid inefficient mappings, fetch associations as efficiently as possible, use Hibernate's caches, and much more. To get the most out of this course, you should be familiar with Hibernate's basic concepts, mappings, and query features. You should also have built a few persistence layers with Hibernate and deployed them to production.Spring Data JPAThis course is for you if you're using Spring Data JPA to implement your persistence layer. You will learn to configure Spring Data JPA, use its standard repositories and test your persistence layer. I will also show you how to avoid performance problems, extend Spring's repositories with and without implementing your own methods and give you an introduction to several integrations of other frameworks to provide auditing, create more complex queries, migrate your database, and much more. To get the most out of this course, you should at least be familiar with JPA's basic concepts, mappings, and query features.Data and Communication Patterns for MicroservicesThis course is for you if you want to design a microservice architecture for your application and wonder how these services will communicate. Unfortunately, that's not as easy as some conference speakers want to make you believe. I will explain why most of the concepts used in a monolith no longer work in a microservice architecture. You will learn patterns to avoid distributed read operations, or if that's not possible, to at least make them as resilient as possible. I will also show you how to design distributed write operations that ensure data consistency without requiring any locks or causing other scalability issues. To get the most out of this course, you should have a basic understanding of Spring Boot and some experience in system design.








Can I get one-on-one help and support for my project?



You can not only post your questions in the forum, but also join the 2 monthly live Q&A calls. For these calls, you can either pre-submit your question for Thorben or ask it live.








What if I don't like the Persistence Hub?



We know that you will enjoy being a member of the Persistence Hub and that it will provide you the right information to improve your skills as a software developer. But if for whatever reason, you're not 100% satisfied, we have the unconditional 30 days money-back guarantee.








Can I access the content released at the Persistence Hub during my membership once I cancel?



No, you can't. Your membership gives you access to the content within the member area. If you cancel or do not renew your membership you will keep access the Persistence Hub until the end of your current payment term. After that, you no longer have access to any content inside the Persistence Hub.




 Disclaimer     Privacy policy     Terms and Conditions     Imprint     Contact Copyright 2022 Thorben Janssen, all rights reserved.                                                








Report 









Harassment

Harassment or bullying behavior




Inappropriate

Contains mature or sensitive content




Misinformation

Contains misleading or false information




Offensive

Contains abusive or derogatory content




Suspicious

Contains spam, fake content or potential malware




Other




 



Report
















Block Member?






Please confirm you want to block this member. 

You will no longer be able to: 


See blocked member's posts 

Mention this member in posts 

Message this member 

Add this member as a connection 


Please note: 
This action will also remove this member from your connections and send a report to the site admin.
Please allow a few minutes for this process to complete. 



Confirm

















Report  





You have already reported this  










Clear
Clear All




















































































 

