Service Decomposition | SOA Design Patterns: Service Governance Patterns | InformIT








BOOK & EBOOK SALE
Buy 2, save 50% when you use discount code SUNSHINE during checkout. Shop now.




Home

            >

            Articles

            >

            Web Services

            >

            SOA




SOA Design Patterns: Service Governance Patterns

Jan 14, 2009





📄 Contents


␡


Compatible Change


Version Identification


Termination Notification


Service Refactoring



                                                Service Decomposition

                                            

Proxy Capability


Decomposed Capability


Distributed Capability







⎙ Print



+ Share This





< Back
Page 5 of 8
Next >

 

This chapter is from the book 


This chapter is from the book


SOA Design Patterns


Learn More
Buy




This chapter is from the book
This chapter is from the book 


SOA Design Patterns


Learn More
Buy


Service Decomposition

How can the granularity of a service be increased subsequent to its implementation?

Table 16.5. Profile summary for the Service Decomposition pattern.





Problem



Overly coarse-grained services can inhibit optimal composition design.





Solution



An already implemented coarse-grained service can be decomposed into two or more fine-grained services.





Application



The underlying service logic is restructured, and new service contracts are established. This pattern will likely require Proxy Capability (497) to preserve the integrity of the original coarse-grained service contract.





Impacts



An increase in fine-grained services naturally leads to larger, more complex service composition designs.





Principles



Service Loose Coupling, Service Composability





Architecture



Service




Problem
When modeling services during the initial analysis phases it is common to take practical considerations into account. For example, what may ideally be represented by a set of fine-grained business service candidates is later combined into a smaller number of coarse-grained services primarily due to performance and other infrastructure-related concerns motivated by the need to keep service composition sizes under control.
After a service inventory architecture matures and more powerful and sophisticated technology and runtime products are incorporated, larger, more complex service compositions become a reality. When designing such compositions, it is generally preferable to keep the footprints of individual services as small as possible because only select service capabilities are required to automate a given parent business task. However, when forced to work with overly coarse-grained services, composition performance can be negatively affected, and the overall composition designs can be less than optimal (Figure 16.13).





Figure 16.13 An Invoice service with a functional context originally derived from three separate business entities ends up existing as a large software program with a correspondingly large footprint, regardless of which capability a composition may need to compose.


NOTE
Another circumstance under which this problem condition can occur is when services are being produced via a meet-in-the-middle delivery process, where a top-down analysis is only partially completed prior to service development. In this delivery approach, the top-down process continues concurrently with service delivery projects. There is a commitment to revising implemented service designs after the top-down analysis progresses to a point where necessary changes to the original service inventory are identified. For more details regarding SOA project delivery strategies, see Chapter 10 in Service-Oriented Architecture: Concepts, Technology, and Design.

Solution
The coarse-grained service is decomposed into a set of fine-grained services that collectively represent the functional context of the original service but establish distinct functional contexts of their own (Figure 16.14).





Figure 16.14 The original, coarse-grained Invoice service is decomposed into three separate services, one of which remains associated with general invoice processing but only encapsulates a subset of the original capabilities.

Application
Carrying out this pattern essentially requires that the existing, coarse-grained service be broken apart and its logic reorganized into new, finer-grained functional boundaries.
Therefore, the first step is usually to revisit the service inventory blueprint and decide how the service can be re-modeled into multiple service candidates. As part of this process, new capability candidates will also need to be defined, especially if Decomposed Capability (504) was not taken into account during the service's original design. After the modeling is completed, the new services are subject to the standard lifecycle phases, beginning with contract design (based on the modeled service candidates) and all the way through to final testing and quality assurance phases (Figure 16.15).





Figure 16.15 The new, fine-grained services each provide fewer capabilities and therefore also impose smaller program sizes.

Unless it is decided to also retrofit previous consumer programs that formed dependencies on the original service, Proxy Capability (497) will likely need to be applied to preserve the original service contract for backwards compatibility.

NOTE
The concepts behind this pattern can also be applied in reverse, where two or more fine-grained services are combined into one coarse-grained service. The use of Proxy Capability (497) would still apply for preserving the original service contracts. This is the basis of a pattern called Service Consolidation which, at the time of this writing, was classified as a candidate pattern that is available for review at SOAPatterns.org.

Impacts
The extent to which Service Decomposition can impact a service inventory depends on how established a service is and how many consumer programs have formed relationships on it. The more consumers involved, the more complicated and disruptive this pattern can be.
Because this pattern is commonly applied after an inventory architecture has matured, its application needs to be carefully planned together with the repeated application of Proxy Capability (497).
The preventative use of Decomposed Capability (504) can ease the impact of Service Decomposition and will also result in a cleaner separation of functional service contexts.
Relationships
Service Decomposition has a series of relationships with other service-level patterns, most notably Service Refactoring (484). When a service is upgraded as a result of a refactoring effort, the application of Service Decomposition may very well be the means by which this is carried out.
As explained in the pattern description for Proxy Capability (497), Service Decomposition relies on that pattern to implement the actual partitioning via the redevelopment effort required to turn one or more regular capabilities into proxies. As a result, this pattern shares several of the same patterns as Proxy Capability (497).
Service Decomposition is most frequently applied to agnostic services, therefore tying it to Entity Abstraction (175) and Utility Abstraction (168). However, the result of this pattern can introduce a measure of service redundancy due to the need for Proxy Capability (497) to violate Service Normalization (131) to some extent.





Figure 16.16 Service Decomposition is a refactoring-related approach to splitting up service logic that ties into numerous patterns that shape service logic and contracts.


Case Study Example
The case study example for Service Refactoring (484) explained how the Employee service was reengineered for a number of reasons. One of the results of this effort is that the service is now more scalable and can handle increased usage loads. The primary reason scalability was addressed is in preparation for new, upcoming service compositions that will require access to employee data and functionality. Those compositions were in the planning stages at that time and are now in production.
Some preliminary statistics show that despite the increase in usage thresholds, the Employee service is still excessively strained, and there have already been complaints about latency and memory overhead associated with the service's invocation and participation as part of the overall composition.
At first the team responsible for the Employee service considers Redundant Implementation (345) to help alleviate this situation. While this would address some of the latency issues, it would not solve the memory overhead issue.
The team then explores the option of splitting the functionality in the Employee service into two separate services. From a back-end perspective, there is an opportunity to do this in a relatively clean-cut manner. Currently, the service encapsulates functionality from an HR ERP system and a custom-developed reporting application. However, as a member of the entity service layer, the architects and business analysts involved would like to preserve the business entity-based functional context in each of the two services it would be split into. Therefore, they don't want to make the decision based on the current service implementation architecture alone.
They turn to the information architecture group responsible for maintaining the master entity relationship diagram to look for suitable employee-related entities that might form the basis of separate services. They locate an Employee Records entity that has a relationship with the parent Employee entity. Employee Records represents historical employee information, such as overtime, sick days, complaints, promotions, injuries, etc.
The team reviews the current entity service functionality and additional capabilities that may need to be added (such as those modeled as part of the service inventory blueprint but not yet implemented). They also look into the back-end systems being encapsulated. The custom-developed reporting application does not provide all of the required features to support a service dedicated to Employee Records processing. The team would need for this service to continue accessing the HR ERP system, plus eventually upcoming Employee Records capabilities will need to further access the central data warehouse.
On the bright side, their original usage statistics indicate that some of the latency issues resulted from the Employee service being tied up executing long-running reporting queries. If this type of functionality were to exist in a separate service, the primary Employee capabilities would be more scalable and reliable, and the Employee service would be "lighter" and a more effective composition participant.
After taking all these factors into consideration, the team feels that it makes sense to break off historical reporting functionality into a separate service appropriately called "Employee Records." The first challenge they face is that the existing Employee service contract is already being used by many consumer programs. If they move capabilities from this service to another, they will introduce significant disruption. For this situation, they apply Proxy Capability (497), as explained in the next case study example.


NOTE
The preceding scenario describes one possible option as to how a service can be decomposed. Another design option is to split the one entity service into an entity and utility service in order to accommodate more practical concerns. Either way, how a service is decomposed is ultimately best determined by a thorough analysis to ensure that your business requirements are fully met.




< Back
Page 5 of 8
Next >





+ Share This



🔖 Save To Your Account














InformIT Promotional Mailings & Special Offers


⚠














                            I would like to receive exclusive offers and hear about products from InformIT and its family of brands. I can unsubscribe at any time.

                        


Privacy Notice



Overview
Pearson Education, Inc., 221 River Street, Hoboken, New Jersey 07030, (Pearson) presents this site to provide information about products and services that can be purchased through this site.
This privacy notice provides an overview of our commitment to privacy and describes how we collect, protect, use and share personal information collected through this site. Please note that other Pearson websites and online products and services have their own separate privacy policies.
Collection and Use of Information
To conduct business and deliver products and services, Pearson collects and uses personal information in several ways in connection with this site, including:
Questions and Inquiries
For inquiries and questions, we collect the inquiry or question, together with name, contact details (email address, phone number and mailing address) and any other additional information voluntarily submitted to us through a Contact Us form or an email. We use this information to address the inquiry and respond to the question.
Online Store
For orders and purchases placed through our online store on this site, we collect order details, name, institution name and address (if applicable), email address, phone number, shipping and billing addresses, credit/debit card information, shipping options and any instructions. We use this information to complete transactions, fulfill orders, communicate with individuals placing orders or visiting the online store, and for related purposes.
Surveys
Pearson may offer opportunities to provide feedback or participate in surveys, including surveys evaluating Pearson products, services or sites. Participation is voluntary. Pearson collects information requested in the survey questions and uses the information to evaluate, support, maintain and improve products, services or sites, develop new products and services, conduct educational research and for other purposes specified in the survey.Contests and Drawings
Occasionally, we may sponsor a contest or drawing. Participation is optional. Pearson collects name, contact information and other information specified on the entry form for the contest or drawing to conduct the contest or drawing. Pearson may collect additional personal information from the winners of a contest or drawing in order to award the prize and for tax reporting purposes, as required by law.
Newsletters
If you have elected to receive email newsletters or promotional mailings and special offers but want to unsubscribe, simply email information@informit.com.
Service Announcements
On rare occasions it is necessary to send out a strictly service related announcement. For instance, if our service is temporarily suspended for maintenance we might send users an email. Generally, users may not opt-out of these communications, though they can deactivate their account information. However, these communications are not promotional in nature.
Customer Service
We communicate with users on a regular basis to provide requested services and in regard to issues relating to their account we reply via email or phone in accordance with the users' wishes when a user submits their information through our Contact Us form.Other Collection and Use of Information
Application and System Logs
Pearson automatically collects log data to help ensure the delivery, availability and security of this site. Log data may include technical information about how a user or visitor connected to this site, such as browser type, type of computer/device, operating system, internet service provider and IP address. We use this information for support purposes and to monitor the health of the site, identify problems, improve service, detect unauthorized access and fraudulent activity, prevent and respond to security incidents and appropriately scale computing resources.
Web Analytics
Pearson may use third party web trend analytical services, including Google Analytics, to collect visitor information, such as IP addresses, browser types, referring pages, pages visited and time spent on a particular site. While these analytical services collect and report information on an anonymous basis, they may use cookies to gather web trend information. The information gathered may enable Pearson (but not the third party web trend services) to link information with application and system log data. Pearson uses this information for system administration and to identify problems, improve service, detect unauthorized access and fraudulent activity, prevent and respond to security incidents, appropriately scale computing resources and otherwise support and deliver this site and its services.
Cookies and Related Technologies
This site uses cookies and similar technologies to personalize content, measure traffic patterns, control security, track use and access of information on this site, and provide interest-based messages and advertising. Users can manage and block the use of cookies through their browser.  Disabling or blocking certain cookies may limit the functionality of this site. 
Do Not Track
This site currently does not respond to Do Not Track signals.
Security
Pearson uses appropriate physical, administrative and technical security measures to protect personal information from unauthorized access, use and disclosure.
Children
This site is not directed to children under the age of 13.Marketing
Pearson may send or direct marketing communications to users, provided that

Pearson will not use personal information collected or processed as a K-12 school service provider for the purpose of directed or targeted advertising.
Such marketing is consistent with applicable law and Pearson's legal obligations.
Pearson will not knowingly direct or send marketing communications to an individual who has expressed a preference not to receive marketing.
Where required by applicable law, express or implied consent to marketing exists and has not been withdrawn.

Pearson may provide personal information to a third party service provider on a restricted basis to provide marketing solely on behalf of Pearson or an affiliate or customer for whom Pearson is a service provider. Marketing preferences may be changed at any time.
Correcting/Updating Personal Information
If a user's personally identifiable information changes (such as your postal address or email address), we provide a way to correct or update that user's personal data provided to us. This can be done on the Account page. If a user no longer desires our service and desires to delete his or her account, please contact us at customer-service@informit.com and we will process the deletion of a user's account.
Choice/Opt-out
Users can always make an informed choice as to whether they should proceed with certain services offered by InformIT. If you choose to remove yourself from our mailing list(s) simply visit the following page and uncheck any communication you no longer want to receive: www.informit.com/u.aspx.Sale of Personal Information
Pearson does not rent or sell personal information in exchange for any payment of money.
While Pearson does not sell personal information, as defined in Nevada law, Nevada residents may email a request for no sale of their personal information to NevadaDesignatedRequest@pearson.com.
Supplemental Privacy Statement for California Residents
California residents should read our Supplemental privacy statement for California residents in conjunction with this Privacy Notice.  The Supplemental privacy statement for California residents explains Pearson's commitment to comply with California law and applies to personal information of California residents collected in connection with this site and the Services.
Sharing and Disclosure
Pearson may disclose personal information, as follows:

As required by law.
With the consent of the individual (or their parent, if the individual is a minor)
In response to a subpoena, court order or legal process, to the extent permitted or required by law
To protect the security and safety of individuals, data, assets and systems, consistent with applicable law
In connection the sale, joint venture or other transfer of some or all of its company or assets, subject to the provisions of this Privacy Notice
To investigate or address actual or suspected fraud or other illegal activities
To exercise its legal rights, including enforcement of the Terms of Use for this site or another contract
To affiliated Pearson companies and other companies and organizations who perform work for Pearson and are obligated to protect the privacy of personal information consistent with this Privacy Notice
To a school, organization, company or government agency, where Pearson collects or processes the personal information in a school setting or on behalf of such organization, company or government agency.

Links
This web site contains links to other sites. Please be aware that we are not responsible for the privacy practices of such other sites. We encourage our users to be aware when they leave our site and to read the privacy statements of each and every web site that collects Personal Information. This privacy statement applies solely to information collected by this web site.
Requests and Contact
Please contact us about this Privacy Notice or if you have any requests or questions relating to the privacy of your personal information.
Changes to this Privacy Notice
We may revise this Privacy Notice through an updated posting. We will identify the effective date of the revision in the posting. Often, updates are made to provide greater clarity or to comply with changes in regulatory requirements. If the updates involve material changes to the collection, protection, use or disclosure of Personal Information, Pearson will provide notice of the change through a conspicuous notice on this site or other appropriate way. Continued use of the site after the effective date of a posted revision evidences acceptance. Please contact us if you have questions or concerns about the Privacy Notice or any objection to any revisions.
Last Update: November 17, 2020
 

Email Address
















books, eBooks, and digital learning



View Your Cart

        


Join|Sign In

SearchSearch


  View Your Cart

        



👤 Sign In

        


Join

Store

                        Business & Management

                      Certification

                        Cloud Computing & Virtualization

                      DataDigital PhotographyEngineering

                        Graphics & Web Design

                      

                        Home & Office Computing

                      Information Technology

                        Mobile Application Development & Programming

                      NetworkingOpen SourceOperating Systems, ServerProgrammingSecurity

                        Software Development & Management

                      Web DevelopmentWeb ServicesFormatsBookseBooksPractice TestsSoftwareTraining CoursesVideoWeb EditionsDeals & PromotionsVideo TrainingImprintsAddison-Wesley ProfessionalAdobe PressCisco PressFT PressIBM PressMicrosoft Press StoreOracle Press BooksPeachpitPearson IT CertificationQue PublishingSams PublishingExploreAboutAffiliate ProgramAuthorsChapters & ArticlesContact UsDeals & PromotionsPopular TopicsProduct RegistrationSpecial Offers & NewsletterVideo TrainingCommunityPress and Media RelationsProduct Review TeamUser GroupsAboutAffiliatesContact UsFAQLegal NoticeOrdering InformationPearson+Privacy NoticeDo Not Sell My Personal InformationPressPromotionsSite MapWrite for Us

          ©  2022 Pearson Education, Informit. All rights reserved.221 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030Pearson
