SOA Pattern (#5): Service Decomposition |  | InformIT






BOOK & EBOOK SALE
Buy 2, save 50% when you use discount code SUNSHINE during checkout. Shop now.




Home

            >

            Articles

            >

            Web Services

            >

            SOA




SOA Pattern (#5): Service Decomposition

Apr 2, 2009






⎙ Print



+ Share This





Page 1 of 1

 

The Service Decomposition pattern provides a technique for splitting up a service after its initial deployment into two or more fine-grained services.
Visit the SOA Patterns of the Week Article Series page to access other articles about SOA Design Patterns.
Like this article? We recommend 


Like this article? We recommend


SOA Design Patterns


Learn More
Buy




Like this article? We recommend
Like this article? We recommend 


SOA Design Patterns


Learn More
Buy



A service inventory is a living body of services that individually will need the

freedom to evolve independently over time. What we learned when documenting the

SOA design pattern catalog is that there are patterns that emerged not only at

design-time but also during this post-implementation evolutionary stage in a

service’s lifecycle.
There is one common scenario that repeatedly surfaced in many projects:

When we model and design services during early stages of SOA adoption we are

constrained by current infrastructure and technology. These constraints require

that we limit the size of service compositions and the extent of cross-service

message exchanges. As a result, each service encompasses more logic and is

coarser grained.
Our infrastructure improves over time (because of new platform upgrades or new

funding for better hardware, etc.). Our existing service compositions are

comprised of coarse-grained services that were delivered within the parameters

of the older environment. However, we now realize that services could be more

fine grained (and could perform and be composed more effectively) because the

infrastructure can support larger service compositions.

It is in response to this situation that the Service

Decomposition pattern provides a technique for splitting up a service after its initial deployment into two or

more fine-grained services.
Of course, such an approach will raise a few eyebrows from those involved in

version control and change management. How can we break apart a service with an

established contract without impacting all of the consumer programs that have

been using the service and have formed very real runtime dependencies on how it

currently exists?
To address these issues, the Service

Decomposition pattern needs the help of several other SOA design patterns:

Proxy

Capability – When logic is moved from one service to another, this pattern can be used to preserve the

original capability that is expressed as part of the original service’s contract.
Service

Façade – In support of enabling Proxy Capability, this multi-purpose

pattern can be used to establish (within the original service logic) a façade layer of processing that acts as a liaison between the original

service and the new service. The façade component may actually invoke the corresponding capability on the newly created service, thereby acting as its

service consumer on behalf of the consumer of the original service.
When applying these two patterns together with Service

Decomposition, the façade logic can also be designed to compensate for a change in behavior that is likely to occur as a result of physically moving a segment of the original service logic into a new location.

An important requirement for the decomposition of a service to be successful is

that the resulting, more fine-grained services have distinct functional

contexts. When modeling and designing these new services, all applicable

service-orientation principles and patterns must be considered as with any other

new service. Other fundamental patterns, such as Service Normalization, also

need to be applied to ensure that the new services properly line up with the

others in the existing service inventory.
One common problem with post-implementation service decomposition, however, is that

a given set of capabilities may not correspond cleanly to the functional

contexts of the new services. What this means is that a new service may only

require a portion of what the original service capability

represents.
There are several ways of dealing with this, including a hybrid application of the

Proxy

Capability pattern where the original service retains some of its logic but then still calls a new service

for the portion that now belongs elsewhere. However, there is yet another pattern we can take into account early on during the initial modeling stages of

the original service in anticipation of future decomposition requirements. This pattern is called Decomposed Capability and it essentially asks us to think ahead as to how a given coarse-grained service context can be split into multiple finer-grained contexts and to then align the initial service capabilities correspondingly.

The SOA Pattern of the Week series is comprised of original content and insights provided to you courtesy of the authors and contributors of the SOAPatterns.org community site and the book “SOA Design Patterns” (Erl et al., ISBN: 0136135161, Prentice Hall, 2009), the latest title in the Prentice Hall Service-Oriented Computing Series from Thomas Erl (www.soabooks.com). 






Page 1 of 1





+ Share This



🔖 Save To Your Account














InformIT Promotional Mailings & Special Offers


⚠














                            I would like to receive exclusive offers and hear about products from InformIT and its family of brands. I can unsubscribe at any time.

                        


Privacy Notice



Overview
Pearson Education, Inc., 221 River Street, Hoboken, New Jersey 07030, (Pearson) presents this site to provide information about products and services that can be purchased through this site.
This privacy notice provides an overview of our commitment to privacy and describes how we collect, protect, use and share personal information collected through this site. Please note that other Pearson websites and online products and services have their own separate privacy policies.
Collection and Use of Information
To conduct business and deliver products and services, Pearson collects and uses personal information in several ways in connection with this site, including:
Questions and Inquiries
For inquiries and questions, we collect the inquiry or question, together with name, contact details (email address, phone number and mailing address) and any other additional information voluntarily submitted to us through a Contact Us form or an email. We use this information to address the inquiry and respond to the question.
Online Store
For orders and purchases placed through our online store on this site, we collect order details, name, institution name and address (if applicable), email address, phone number, shipping and billing addresses, credit/debit card information, shipping options and any instructions. We use this information to complete transactions, fulfill orders, communicate with individuals placing orders or visiting the online store, and for related purposes.
Surveys
Pearson may offer opportunities to provide feedback or participate in surveys, including surveys evaluating Pearson products, services or sites. Participation is voluntary. Pearson collects information requested in the survey questions and uses the information to evaluate, support, maintain and improve products, services or sites, develop new products and services, conduct educational research and for other purposes specified in the survey.Contests and Drawings
Occasionally, we may sponsor a contest or drawing. Participation is optional. Pearson collects name, contact information and other information specified on the entry form for the contest or drawing to conduct the contest or drawing. Pearson may collect additional personal information from the winners of a contest or drawing in order to award the prize and for tax reporting purposes, as required by law.
Newsletters
If you have elected to receive email newsletters or promotional mailings and special offers but want to unsubscribe, simply email information@informit.com.
Service Announcements
On rare occasions it is necessary to send out a strictly service related announcement. For instance, if our service is temporarily suspended for maintenance we might send users an email. Generally, users may not opt-out of these communications, though they can deactivate their account information. However, these communications are not promotional in nature.
Customer Service
We communicate with users on a regular basis to provide requested services and in regard to issues relating to their account we reply via email or phone in accordance with the users' wishes when a user submits their information through our Contact Us form.Other Collection and Use of Information
Application and System Logs
Pearson automatically collects log data to help ensure the delivery, availability and security of this site. Log data may include technical information about how a user or visitor connected to this site, such as browser type, type of computer/device, operating system, internet service provider and IP address. We use this information for support purposes and to monitor the health of the site, identify problems, improve service, detect unauthorized access and fraudulent activity, prevent and respond to security incidents and appropriately scale computing resources.
Web Analytics
Pearson may use third party web trend analytical services, including Google Analytics, to collect visitor information, such as IP addresses, browser types, referring pages, pages visited and time spent on a particular site. While these analytical services collect and report information on an anonymous basis, they may use cookies to gather web trend information. The information gathered may enable Pearson (but not the third party web trend services) to link information with application and system log data. Pearson uses this information for system administration and to identify problems, improve service, detect unauthorized access and fraudulent activity, prevent and respond to security incidents, appropriately scale computing resources and otherwise support and deliver this site and its services.
Cookies and Related Technologies
This site uses cookies and similar technologies to personalize content, measure traffic patterns, control security, track use and access of information on this site, and provide interest-based messages and advertising. Users can manage and block the use of cookies through their browser.  Disabling or blocking certain cookies may limit the functionality of this site. 
Do Not Track
This site currently does not respond to Do Not Track signals.
Security
Pearson uses appropriate physical, administrative and technical security measures to protect personal information from unauthorized access, use and disclosure.
Children
This site is not directed to children under the age of 13.Marketing
Pearson may send or direct marketing communications to users, provided that

Pearson will not use personal information collected or processed as a K-12 school service provider for the purpose of directed or targeted advertising.
Such marketing is consistent with applicable law and Pearson's legal obligations.
Pearson will not knowingly direct or send marketing communications to an individual who has expressed a preference not to receive marketing.
Where required by applicable law, express or implied consent to marketing exists and has not been withdrawn.

Pearson may provide personal information to a third party service provider on a restricted basis to provide marketing solely on behalf of Pearson or an affiliate or customer for whom Pearson is a service provider. Marketing preferences may be changed at any time.
Correcting/Updating Personal Information
If a user's personally identifiable information changes (such as your postal address or email address), we provide a way to correct or update that user's personal data provided to us. This can be done on the Account page. If a user no longer desires our service and desires to delete his or her account, please contact us at customer-service@informit.com and we will process the deletion of a user's account.
Choice/Opt-out
Users can always make an informed choice as to whether they should proceed with certain services offered by InformIT. If you choose to remove yourself from our mailing list(s) simply visit the following page and uncheck any communication you no longer want to receive: www.informit.com/u.aspx.Sale of Personal Information
Pearson does not rent or sell personal information in exchange for any payment of money.
While Pearson does not sell personal information, as defined in Nevada law, Nevada residents may email a request for no sale of their personal information to NevadaDesignatedRequest@pearson.com.
Supplemental Privacy Statement for California Residents
California residents should read our Supplemental privacy statement for California residents in conjunction with this Privacy Notice.  The Supplemental privacy statement for California residents explains Pearson's commitment to comply with California law and applies to personal information of California residents collected in connection with this site and the Services.
Sharing and Disclosure
Pearson may disclose personal information, as follows:

As required by law.
With the consent of the individual (or their parent, if the individual is a minor)
In response to a subpoena, court order or legal process, to the extent permitted or required by law
To protect the security and safety of individuals, data, assets and systems, consistent with applicable law
In connection the sale, joint venture or other transfer of some or all of its company or assets, subject to the provisions of this Privacy Notice
To investigate or address actual or suspected fraud or other illegal activities
To exercise its legal rights, including enforcement of the Terms of Use for this site or another contract
To affiliated Pearson companies and other companies and organizations who perform work for Pearson and are obligated to protect the privacy of personal information consistent with this Privacy Notice
To a school, organization, company or government agency, where Pearson collects or processes the personal information in a school setting or on behalf of such organization, company or government agency.

Links
This web site contains links to other sites. Please be aware that we are not responsible for the privacy practices of such other sites. We encourage our users to be aware when they leave our site and to read the privacy statements of each and every web site that collects Personal Information. This privacy statement applies solely to information collected by this web site.
Requests and Contact
Please contact us about this Privacy Notice or if you have any requests or questions relating to the privacy of your personal information.
Changes to this Privacy Notice
We may revise this Privacy Notice through an updated posting. We will identify the effective date of the revision in the posting. Often, updates are made to provide greater clarity or to comply with changes in regulatory requirements. If the updates involve material changes to the collection, protection, use or disclosure of Personal Information, Pearson will provide notice of the change through a conspicuous notice on this site or other appropriate way. Continued use of the site after the effective date of a posted revision evidences acceptance. Please contact us if you have questions or concerns about the Privacy Notice or any objection to any revisions.
Last Update: November 17, 2020
 

Email Address
















books, eBooks, and digital learning



View Your Cart

        


Join|Sign In

SearchSearch


  View Your Cart

        



👤 Sign In

        


Join

Store

                        Business & Management

                      Certification

                        Cloud Computing & Virtualization

                      DataDigital PhotographyEngineering

                        Graphics & Web Design

                      

                        Home & Office Computing

                      Information Technology

                        Mobile Application Development & Programming

                      NetworkingOpen SourceOperating Systems, ServerProgrammingSecurity

                        Software Development & Management

                      Web DevelopmentWeb ServicesFormatsBookseBooksPractice TestsSoftwareTraining CoursesVideoWeb EditionsDeals & PromotionsVideo TrainingImprintsAddison-Wesley ProfessionalAdobe PressCisco PressFT PressIBM PressMicrosoft Press StoreOracle Press BooksPeachpitPearson IT CertificationQue PublishingSams PublishingExploreAboutAffiliate ProgramAuthorsChapters & ArticlesContact UsDeals & PromotionsPopular TopicsProduct RegistrationSpecial Offers & NewsletterVideo TrainingCommunityPress and Media RelationsProduct Review TeamUser GroupsAboutAffiliatesContact UsFAQLegal NoticeOrdering InformationPearson+Privacy NoticeDo Not Sell My Personal InformationPressPromotionsSite MapWrite for Us

          ©  2022 Pearson Education, Informit. All rights reserved.221 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030Pearson
