

















Stock Market Dashboard - Trend Analysis of Stock Performance


















































 

 





























 

 















Home
About Us
Advertise With Us
Excel Forum
Commercial Services
 





 








  






 Toggle navigation    



Basic Excel
Excel Tips
Excel Functions
Excel Charts
VBA
 














Excel Tip > Excel Dashboards > Stock Performance > Stock Market Dashboard - Trend Analysis of Stock Performance





























Stock Market Dashboard - Trend Analysis of Stock Performance






Created by: pedroufksi
 
About Dashboard:
Stock Market: - The stock market is the market that people use to sell and buy shares which are very small percentages of a company’s profit. When company grow obviously share amount also grow. We get the amount accordingly if we sell it and if we buy the share then share price will obviously be according to the company’s market value.
The value of the share also depends on how many buyers want to purchase the share of that company. It means if more buyers are there, share price will go up.
Stock Dashboard is useful to show the share trend, how the shares have performed in the last year, last month and last day. It is useful to analyze that to know where we should invest our money.
Through Excel Forum’s user we got a dashboard related to Stock Market. Let’s understand the dashboard; how it is prepared and how it will be useful to analyze the stock performance for the user.


Line chart is used to show the share trend and amount date wise. We can see what is the share price and the trend and how it is performing.
In this 3 lines are used, dark blue line is representing the MPC, light blue line is representing to TFG and red line is representing to TRU.
Through this chart we can take idea that MPC is best to invest the money, as per the trend we can forecast that this share can give us better returns than other shares.

Area chart is used to show the share trend and amount calendar wise. In this chart we have 2 radio buttons and 3 check boxes. 2 radio buttons are available to show the report on daily trend, and to show the report on Weekly trend. 3 check boxes are available to show the as per the sectors, where we can select a single sector or multiple sectors.
Below 1 table is linked with chart analyses in which presenting the summary to the selected criteria.

Above shown tabs are showing the current status of the shares. In these tabs we can see the all the shares present market value.According to this tab users switch their funds, buy and sells their shares.
Through this dashboard we can easily analyze where we should invest the money, when we should sell our shares, where we should switch the money and from where we can get more profit.
Download Dashboard



Previous


Next







Leave a Reply Cancel replyYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *Comment Name * 
Email * 












 

 






Related Excel Tips


Stock Market Dashboard by allanjerryco.gatus...

Continue 
 5 Comments 



Stock Market Dashboard by gak67...

Continue 
 1 Comment 



Stock Market Dashboard by sglife...

Continue 
 No Comments 



Stock Market Dashboard - Stock wise and % sha...

Continue 
 No Comments 





Categories

Basic ExcelElearningExcel 365 FunctionsExcel Business Templates and DashboardsExcel DashboardsExcel DataExcel Date and TimeExcel ErrorsExcel FunctionsExcel Functions ListExcel GeneralExcel Macros and VBAExcel SpanishExcel Text, Editing and FormatExcel Tips and Tricks











Terms and Conditions of use
The applications/code on this site are distributed as is and without warranties or liability. In no event shall the owner of the copyrights, or the authors of the applications/code be liable for any loss of profit, any problems or any damage resulting from the use or evaluation of the applications/code.










Home
About
Advertise With Us



Excel Tips and Tricks
Excel Editing
Excel Format















Newsletter
Get latest updates from exceltip in your mail.
 

Leave this field empty if you're human: 









Google serves cookies to analyse traffic to this site. Information about your use of our site is shared with Google for that purpose



Accept






 












 



Home
About Us
Advertise With Us
Excel Forum
Commercial Services





























 Privacy Overview


 Strictly Necessary Cookies



Powered by GDPR plugin











Privacy Overview

This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
You can adjust all of your cookie settings by navigating the tabs on the left hand side.




Strictly Necessary Cookies

Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.




disable








If you disable this cookie, we will not be able to save your preferences. This means that every time you visit this website you will need to enable or disable cookies again.











Enable All
Save Changes














