





Top 7 ETL Tools for 2022 | Integrate.io


































































































































icon-arrow-down-xplenty

































































































































































Product
          













ETL & Reverse ETL





ELT & CDC





Performance Monitoring





API Management






Solutions  
          













Customer 360





Data Security





Data Ingestion





Reverse ETL





Business Intelligence









Data Science Team





Salesforce Team





Engineering Team





Data Team











SaaS





SaaS





Media & Entertainment





Travel





E-learning





Healthcare






Integrations


Resources
          













Customers





Webinars





Books & Guides





Documentation





Blog






Tel +1 (888) 884 6405


Sign In


Get Started




Sign In


Get Started














Top 7 ETL Tools for 2022






By Abe Dearmer




                ETL

 February 03, 2022 



























Businesses today are more complex and almost exclusively digital. That means they need to incorporate the latest technology, such as BI tools and connections, to stay on top of business growth and customer needs. Using the top ETL solutions for 2022 is an excellent way to maximize capabilities and instantly access real-time data stored in data warehouses and then transfer that information directly to connected parties. 
Consider these top 7 ETL solutions and weigh the benefits to determine the right choice for your company. Whether you have an SMB or an enterprise-level company, there’s a solution that fits your needs and helps you stick to a budget without forgoing functions and options. 
 Table of Contents: 


What Are ETL Tools?

The Top ETL Providers 

Integrate.io
Talend
Apache Nifi
AWS Glue
Pentaho
Google Data Flow
Azure Data Factory


Choosing the Best ETL Tools 
How Integrate.io Can Help

What Are ETL Tools? 
ETL stands for Extract, Transform and Load and refers to the process of extracting data from a data source or warehouse and then transforming the data, so it’s usable at the destination. Once the data is changed, it’s loaded to the destination for use by a company’s internal teams to improve functionality. ETL is essential for enterprise data and growing companies with a large customer base. 
There are several SaaS ETL tools out there. They allow users to incorporate data integration and data migration for their specific types of data in a manner that most benefits their workflows and processes. 

The Top ETL Providers 
These are a few of the best ETL tools on the market, representing the top performers for data management in 2022. Consider a leading data integration tool to help you manage your big data daily business and gain better insights for teams across several departments. There are options for those with more technical knowledge and capabilities and those who want a simple no-code solution. ETL is an easier way to move data with better security and features. 
1. Integrate.io
Integrate.io is a leading ETL provider and data integration solution that gives customers everything they need to customize their data flows and help them build better data pipelines for improved company insights and customer relationships. This all-in-one ETL service connects to most major data warehouses like Amazon Redshift, BigQuery, and Snowflake. It’s even compatible with data lakes, which makes it one of the most flexible and beneficial choices out there today. 
Additionally, connecting to apps and platforms via APIs is fast and easy. Integrate.io offers low-code and no-code options, so you can save time and money without overtaxing IT teams or needing additional developers or data engineers. Take advantage of the drag-and-drop controls and user-friendly interface. 
One of the most attractive features of Integrate.io is its 24/7 customer service feature. Experts are waiting to work on issues around the clock. There is no waiting to get support, so you can have less downtime, fewer interrupted workflows, and solve problems right away. 
2. Talend
Talend is a top ETL tool that can connect to almost any data warehouse. It has an interactive user interface that allows the customer to transform data and customize workflows. This option works from a code generation approach, and that means every time you want to make a change, you must do so in the logic. 
While Talend might be an excellent solution for tech-savvy personnel or those using additional IT professionals, it’s not ideal for those who want a simple solution that doesn’t require other workforce demands. 
Although that might be a stumbling block for some, it does have some stand-out features, such as hybrid and multi-cloud operations for data governance. Additionally, you can manage the entire data lifecycle and ensure quality data is available at any time. The fact that it’s an open-source ETL tool is also another attractive feature. 
3. Apache Nifi
If you’re looking for top automation to power workflows between platforms, then Apache Nifi might be a good solution. It works through a host operating system to function within JVM and includes a web server, extensions, Flowfile repository, provenance repository, flow, and content repository. 
This option has few developer requirements and helps improve insights and visual management while maintaining data quality. One of the most attractive features is handling internal errors and promoting testing units from various components. 
4. AWS Glue
Amazon Web Services’ Glue ETL service is designed to provide a complete data overhaul by combing through the data to provide data transformations while preparing data sets and then cataloging them. 
AWS calls this option a “serverless ETL,” and it can deploy in just a few minutes. This code-based option is much like Talend; however, it offers real-time data flows and is batch-oriented. It’s an ETL pipeline solution for every angle of data transformation and sharing, ideal for your CRM. AWS Glue operates on a pay-as-you-go model billed hourly rather than as a flat-rate service. 
5. Pentaho 
This BI software provides critical details for specific areas of business. Pentaho has multi-bound and hybrid architectures while delivering data integration and data processing. It also has an upscale reporting feature that allows you to choose formats like the following.

CSV
PDF
Excel
HTML

Additionally, Pentaho provides flexible solutions for either on-site or cloud providers. This service is focused on batch ETL processes and offers data mining, OLAP services, and information dashboards. One other feature that stands out is its no-code installation. You don’t need extra workforce capabilities to get it connected and running. 
6. Google Data Flow
This all-in-one fully managed ETL tool is ideal for those who want a complete solution via Apache Beam Pipelines that operate in the Google cloud. Google Data Flow gives real-time insights and provides data processing for larger scales. Some benefits include auto-scaling and reducing latency while focusing on programming. 
Other options focus on cluster management, whereas Google DataFlow takes the server-less approach. You can implement a streaming data pipeline in minutes and harness the power of this ETL tool with almost no cap on capacity. You also get batch processing and scalable cost management solutions via resource auto-scaling. 
7. Azure Data Factory
Azure Data Factory is another server-less option that offers fully managed services. This intuitive ETL tool allows for connections between all software platforms via 90+ links. Use it to repost SQL server integrations. You can also improve overall efficiency with autonomous ETL processes and better insights across all teams. 
This option offers pay-as-you-go models for pricing and allows for a more cost-effective approach to managing data and connections for all workflows. You also get the benefit of having no-code options, so you don’t need a developer or additional IT support to get started. 
Choosing the Best ETL Tools 
Choosing the right ETL tool depends on many factors. First is the tool’s capabilities, such as data analytics and use cases. Does the provider have the options and connections you need? Do the ETL tools provide the right pricing model to fit your budget and work volume?
Capacity for handling data, data quality, and data warehousing processes also factors heavily in the decision-making process. When you work with a SaaS provider that charges based on data volume, you run into headaches for budgeting teams. Those use costs fluctuate constantly and total up quickly.
These fees add up before you know it and overextend the allotted budget. Don’t forget to include the level of customer service that ETL tools offer in case you run into complications. Some providers don't handle support when you need it, so it's important to find providers that will. If a service provides a demo, that’s usually the best way to find out if it is genuinely a good fit.
How Integrate.io Can Help 
Integrate.io offers a high-performance data integration platform. It’s a complete solution for data management via API connectors, ETL, and ELT for your data warehouses to various third-party apps and platforms. You don’t need coding skills, and you can have your ETL service up and running hands-free in a few clicks. The customizable options allow for on-premises integrations in addition to cloud data warehouse connectors. 
To learn more about the range of integration processes we offer or to try it out for yourself, sign up for our 7-day demo and see how easy it is to scale and streamline workflows and gain more in-depth insights across the board. Team up with an industry leader to get ahead and power your company’s growth.  







ETL
        



















 You might also like our other posts...










ETL
February 14, 2022


Integrate.io Now Has a New NetSuite Connector!

                    Need to connect your NetSuite data with your other software? Find out how with Integrate.io's NetSuite ETL and reverse ETL data connector.
              







Mark Smallcombe















ETL
February 10, 2022


Top 7 AWS Redshift ETL Tools

                    When using AWS Redshift, you should always use an ETL to transfer data. Here are the seven best ETL tools for AWS Redshift.
              







Donal Tobin















ETL
February 02, 2022


Top 5 ETL Tools For Heroku

                    There are plenty of ETL tools available that can help you process data, but you need one that fits your needs. Learn more about Integrate.io and the top five ETL...
              







Abe Dearmer















 Tags:
                
                  etl,
                

                  etl comparison,
                

                  etl tools
                
















Integrate.io


Keeping Data Safe
-
The Complete Guide to Data Security


Keeping Data Safe: The Complete Guide to Data Security
Get free ebook







Read next:
7 Ways To Reverse ETL






















hello@integrate.io


+1-888-884-6405





Solutions

Marketing
Sales
Support
Developers

Integrations
Integrate.io Platform



Industries

Retail
Hospitality
Advertising



Resources

Webinars
Books and Guides
Blog
Glossary

Compare

Alooma
Fivetran
Talend
ETLeap
Stitch
Matillion



Support

Live Chat
Documentation
Developers
Security


Service Status


Privacy Policy
Terms of Service



Company

About
Customers
Partners

Language

English
日本語
한국어














            © 2022 Integrate. All Rights Reserved.
          



 

 

 

 




























Get the Integrate.io newsletter.




Subscribe

Don’t worry, we hate spam as much as you do.

I'm already subscribed.
No thanks.










