

Understanding Real Time Data Streaming Tools and Technologies








































































 

  
  

























XenonStack Recommends






Blogs









Neural Company




















What We Do




Enterprise AI
Cloud Native
DataOps
CX Innovation & Optimization











Enterprise AI










Computer Vision
Customized video and text analytics solutions













Robotic Process Automation
Improving business efficiency and productivity













Cognitive Customer Analytics
360 degree customer and product recommendations













Natural Language Processing
NLU enables to understand human language and deliver insights













Cloud Native










Cloud Native Applications
Application development & modernization with cloud













Application Modernization
Modernise your legacy applications













Cloud Migration
Transformation and migration with microservices













Hybrid & Multi Cloud
Common and interconnected workloads deployed across providers













DataOps










Enterprise Data Strategy
Enables superior data management and analytics













Data Warehouse Modernization
Migrate and transform with Cloud Data Warehouse













Big Data Analytics
Decision Driven Data Analytics Strategy Consulting













Internet of Things
IoT Platform Solutions on Cloud and On-Premises













CX Innovation & Optimization










Data Visualization and Storytelling
Transforming data to actionable insights













Digital Platform Strategy
Enables growth with innovation and experimentation













Intelligent Enterprise
Interconnected business processes with modern technology













Cloud Native Security
Continuous application security with platform and infrastructure



















Managed Services






Digital Consulting Services












Solutions




Key Technologies
Solutions











Key Technologies









Google Cloud











Amazon AWS











Microsoft Azure











Kubernetes












Solutions









GitOps with Continuous Delivery
Implement Continuous Deployment and Cluster Management at scale











Knowledge Graph and Graph Analytics
Context-based knowledge transformation and analytics solutions











Data Catalog and Discovery Platform
Open MetaData Management and Smarter Data Discovery











Machine Learning Operations
End to End Machine learning development and Model Operationalisation management (MLOps)











Serverless Application and Platform
Serverless application development with kubernetes, AWS lambda and Cloud functions











Infrastructure as Code Platform
Deployment automation and Release Engineering is foundation for Modern Infrastructure











Real Time Analytics
Streaming analytics for data experience











Digital Twin
Converging the physical and digital world with metaverse, AR and digital twins











Big Data Testing
Big Data automation testing for scalable analytics applications











Enterprise Search 
Federated and Cognitive search with Machine Learning











Blockchain Solutions
Decentralised Blockchain network for Hyperledger Fabric and Web3 applications











Business Intelligence
BI modernisation strategy for data-centric experiences

















Enabling Cloud Native Transformation , Security as Core Fundamental and Augmented Analytics











Industries




Readiness Assessment
AI Transformation











Readiness Assessment










Devops
Enterprise DevOps Transformation Assessment and Strategy













Cloud
Cloud Strategy Readiness and Migration Consulting













Big Data
Enterprise Data Strategy and Consulting Solutions













Data Science
Enterprise AI and Analytics Strategy













AI Transformation










Infrastructure
Artificial Intelligence services for infrastructure systems













Healthcare
Applications of Artificial Intelligence in Modern Healthcare













Public Safety
AI for Public Safety Service Offerings













Banking
AI Based Services for Real-Time Digital Banking













Cyber Security
Enabling AI-powered smarter Cybersecurity solutions













Retail
How AI is powering the transformation of the retail industry













Insurance
AI-powered Insurance Claim Processing and Fraud Analytics













Manufacturing
AI enabled services for connected Manufacturing













Transitioning to the Future with Analytics, Data and Automation

KNOW MORE











How Cloud Native and AI Transformation improving Business of Experience











Resources




Blogs
Insights
Videos
Use Cases











How Neural Company vision moving towards Digital twin Metaverse Enterprise

KNOW MORE











Blogs
Popular articles on DevOps, Big Data Engineering, Advanced Analytics, AI, Embedded Analytics and IoT









Insights
Technology Insights on upcoming digital trends and next generation terminologies









Videos
Videos and Solution Architecture detailed walkthrough for Serverless Applications, Cloud Native and Managed Services









Use Cases
Podcast and Webinar sessions on industry challenges and recent development in the IT sector













Explore more Featured Blogs , Insights and Use Cases












Company




Why XenonStack
Clients and Services











Transitioning to the future with Analytics, Data and Automation

KNOW MORE






Why XenonStack










About Us
Build your Cloud Native, AI First and Decision Driven Journey













Our Purpose
Growth for building strong career and leadership platform













How We Work
Agile and Iterative approach towards value driven delivery













How We Grow
Continuous experimentation, Data-informed and Solution Approach













Growth Labs










Client and Partners
XenonStack is a relationship-driven organization working towards providing the best results possible













XenonStack University - StackLabs
Ready to use hands-on Cloud Enabled labs













Neural Company - MetaVerse
Digital Twin MetaVerse enterprise synchronising the physical and digital with intelligent cloud and edge AI


















Transitioning towards Intelligent Automation and Augmented Intelligence













CONTACT US
































XenonStack Recommends






Blogs









Neural Company

























Enterprise Data Management
Understanding Real Time Data Streaming Tools and Technologies
by Chandan Gaur  | 13 May 2022

















Subscription


Fresh news directly to your mailbox

Email*
              




             SUBMIT
           




                Thanks for submitting the form.
              



















































Overview of Data Streaming and Analytics
Real-time data streaming and analytics is the process used for analyzing the huge amount of data at the moment it is used or produced. In this, we extract valuable information for the organization as soon as it's created or stored. Let's take an example of analyzing the huge amount of data as it is produced within banks and branches, stock exchanges throughout the globe and further, this analytics data delivers to the users/administrator through an analytics dashboard. Real-time analytics can be used for the below purposes:-

IoT analytics is an application that helps to understand the huge volume of data generated connected IoT devices. Source: IoT Analytics Platform for Real-Time Data


To report historical data and current data concurrently.
For receiving alerts based on certain and predefined parameters.
To build operational decisions and apply them to business processes or on other production activities based on a real-time and ongoing basis.
To apply pre-existing prescriptive models or predictive models.
For the outlook of real-time displays or dashboards in real-time on constantly changing datasets.

What are the benefits of Real-Time Streaming and Analytics?
The benefits of Real-time streaming and analytics are below:
Data Visualization
A set of historical datasets can be placed into a single screen to represent an overall point. Still, on the other hand, streaming data can be visualized so that it updates in real-time to display what is occurring every second.
Business Insights
When it's about business, real-time analytics can be used for receiving alerts based on certain and predefined parameters. For example, if any store there is a drop in sales, then an alert can be triggered to tell management about the serious problem. Increase competitiveness: Real-time analytics helps companies surpass competitors who are still based on batch processing analysis.
Security
Take an example of fraud detection, fraud can be detected immediately whenever it happens, and a proper safety precaution can be taken to limit the damage.
Limitations of Real-Time Streaming and Analytics

Compatibility: In the case of historical big data analytics, Hadoop is the most widely used tool, but in the case of streaming and real-time data, it is not. The better options are spark streaming, Apache Samza, Apache Flink, or Apache Storm.
System Failure: In terms of business, real-time analytics or handling data at rapid rates is not an easy job. It could lead to faulty analysis or even sometimes system failure.


Stream Analytics delivers the most powerful insights from the data, a lot of Data Processing platforms available to process data from ingestion platforms. Source: Real-Time and Streaming Architecture

What is Real-Time Streaming?
Real-time streaming is the process by which huge sizes/volumes of data can be processed quickly. A firm extracting the information from that particular data can react to changing conditions in real-time. In other words, we can say that real-time streaming is based on the queries that work on time and buffer windows. When we compare this real-time streaming process with the traditional database model, we found a lot of differences between these two processes. Both processes are opposite to each other. Real-time streaming uses data while in motion through the server, but on the other hand, in the traditional database model,, data was first stored and indexed and processed. Real-time analytics are useful in many applications. Below are some of the major applications in which real-time streaming:-

E-Commerce
Pricing and analytics
Network Monitoring
Risk Management
Fraud Detection

Real-Time Streaming Data
These days, a large number of Data Processing platforms are available to process data from ingestion platforms. Some of them support streaming of data, and some support real streaming of data which is Real-Time data. In the case of streaming, there is always some amount of delay in streaming data from the ingestion layer. But on the other hand, in the case of Real-Time data, have tight deadlines regarding time. Whenever we talked about detecting frauds, predicting errors, business decisions, and analyzing real-time logs, all are the scenarios/examples of streaming. As soon as data arrives, it will receive instant, which we termed Real-Time data.
Why We Need Real-Time Streaming?
We need Real-Time Streaming because we all already know that distributed file systems such as Hadoop, S3, and other distributed file systems support data processing in large volumes. On the other hand, we can also query them using their different frameworks like Hive, which uses MapReduce as their execution engine. Many organizations are trying to collect as much data as they can regarding their products, services, or even their organizational activities, like tracking employees' activities through various methods used like log tracking, taking screenshots at regular intervals.
So with the help of this data, Data Engineering allows us to convert this data into some particular basic formats, and further data analysts turn this data into some useful results which help the organization in several ways such as helping in improving their customer experiences and also boost their employee’s productivity. But on the other hand, whenever we are talking about real-time analytics, fraud detection, or log analytics, then this is not the way to process our data. The actual value data is in processing or acting upon it at the instant it receives.

Apache Spark is a fast, in-memory data processing engine with expressive development APIs to allow data workers to execute streaming conveniently. Source: Real-Time Streaming Application

What is the Real-Time Analytic Platform?
The Real-time analytics platform consists of the following steps:-

The Real-Time Stream Sources
Real-Time Stream Ingestion
The Real-Time Stream Storage
Real-Time Stream Processing

Real-Time Stream Sources
For real-time analytics, the first major need sources from where real-time data origin. There are many sources of streaming data:-
Sensor Data
The sensor is the device's output that measures a physical quantity and transforms it into a digital signal.
Social Media Stream
Social media streaming like a Twitter feed, Facebook, Instagram, Youtube, Pinterest, Tumblr.
ClickStream
The stream contains the data about which pages the website visits and in what order.
What are the best Tools for Real-Time Stream Ingestion?
Now there is a need to ingest the streams which are coming from the real-time stream sources. So there are various open-source tools in the market through which we can ingest the stream, and some of them are below:-
Apache NIFI
In simple words, we can say that Apache NiFi is a data ingestion tool. It is an integrated data logistics platform for automating the movement of data between disparate systems. It provides real-time control that makes it easy to manage data movement between any source and any destination. Apache NiFi supports disparate and distributed sources of differing formats, schemas, protocols, speeds, and sizes such as machines, geolocation devices, clickstreams, files, social feeds, log files and videos, and more. It is configurable plumbing for moving data around, similar to how FedEx, UPS, or other courier delivery services move parcels around. Apache NiFi also allows us to trace our data in real-time, just like we could trace a delivery.
Apache StreamSets
StreamSets is also a data ingestion tool similar to NIFI. Basically, StreamSets is a data operations platform where we can efficiently develop batch and streaming dataflows, and further operate them with full visibility and control, and easily evolve our architecture over time.
Apache Beam is an open-source unified programming model used to define and execute data processing pipelines. Source: Apache Beam Architecture

What are the Real-Time Stream Storage Sources?
Further, we need storage in which we can ingest the stream. Many open-source stream storages are available in the market. Some of them are below:-
Apache Kafka
Kafka is beneficial for building real-time data pipelines and streaming apps. It is horizontally scalable, fault-tolerant, wicked fast, and runs in production in thousands of companies.
Apache Pulsar
Apache Pulsar is an open-source distributed pub-sub messaging system created at Yahoo and now part of the Apache Software Foundation.
NATS.IO
NATS Server is a simple, high-performance open-source messaging system for cloud-native applications, IoT messaging, and microservices architectures.
Real-Time Stream Processing
Some open-source data streaming platforms are available in the market which are best fo processing the streaming data, and some of them are below:-
Apache Spark
Apache Spark is a unified analytics engine for large-scale data processing. Basically, Apache Spark is a computing technology that its design is specially for faster computation. Spark has design to cover batch applications, interactive queries, algorithms, and streaming. The main feature of spark is that it is in-memory cluster computing which means that this will increase the processing speed of an application.
Apache Apex
Apache Apex is also a unified stream and batch processing engine. Basically, Apache Apex is based on separate functional and operational specifications rather than compounding them together.
Apache Flink
Apache Flink is an open-source stream processing framework for distributed, high-performance, and data-accurate data streaming applications. Flink also supports batch processing as a special case of stream processing.
Apache Storm
Apache Storm is also a free and open-source distributed real-time computation system similar to the above processing systems. The storm is very simple and also useful with any programming language. The storm is extremely fast, with the ability to process over a million records per second per node on a cluster of modest size. The main features of Storm are that it is fast, scalable, fault-tolerant, reliable, and easy to operate.
Apache Beam
Apache Beam is a unified programming model used for implementing batch and streaming data processing jobs that run on any execution engine. The main features of Apache Beam are that it is unified, portable, and Extensible. It works with any processing engine like Apache Spark, Flink, Apache Apex, Google Cloud Dataflow, and Apache Gear pump.

Flink treats data streams in the form of a data stream, using which we can manipulate the streaming data. Apache Flink Architecture and Use Cases

Conclusion
Real-time data streaming and analytics is a process that mainly focuses on the data produced or consumed, or stored within a live environment. The scope of analytics can be from multiple sources. We can import or fetch the data, store it within a system, and execute data analysis algorithms.

Discover more about Real-Time Streaming Data Visualizations
Explore about IoT Analytics Platform for Real-Time Data Ingestion















First Name*  
             



Last Name*  
             




Email* 
           



Comment* 
             








            Thanks for submitting the form.
          











                  Related Insights
               














Enterprise Data Management

Understanding Real Time Data Streaming Tools and Technologies


13 May 2022












Enterprise Data Management

What is Data Operation (DataOps) ? Principles | Benefits | Tools


12 May 2022












Enterprise Data Management

Modern Data Warehouse Architecture and its Best Practices


12 May 2022















Fresh news directly to your mailbox
Email*
                




              SUBMIT
              




            Thanks for submitting the form.
          














              Explore our ToolKit for Human and Data Centric Approach towards Neural Company
            



KNOW MORE











We are members of :























Partnerships & Certifications :






































xenonstack










































Why XenonStack


About us
Services
Solutions
Careers






Neural Enablers


Human Interaction
Modular Driven
API Driven
Platform Strategy
Data and AI






Technology Consulting


Cloud Strategy
Big Data Strategy
Devops
AI






Solutions


Knowledge Graph and Graph Analytics
Data Catalog and Discovery Platform
Augmented Data Quality and Management
Serverless Data Mesh Platform
Video Analytics
Time Series Analytics






Reach Us


Managed Analytics Services
SRE Managed Services
Managed AI Cloud
On-Premises AI Cluster




JOB OPENINGS









Products
ElixirData
NexaStack
MetaSecure
Akira AI







                    System Status
                  

                    Cookie Manager
                  





                    Terms of Use
                  

                    Security
                  

                    Privacy
                  
 
                    Trademark Policy
                  































